Guardia Nacional vigilará frontera hasta que haya muro, dice Trump via El Universal … // no pues si está complicado el cruce y si se ponen esa chaparrita en Arizona, “pior”
Many people can't forgive you for the way you and your followers treated hrc after it was clear she would win the primary. Fairly or not you get a lot of blame for trump who is a nightmare for poc. Be humble in that truth
Steve, I was just watching you on CNN. You mentioned that you talked to so many people last eeek about China’s issue. They agreed to become tougher. Whom you met? All trump’s supporters? If my monthly household cost goes up, who will pay me? Trump? Who went to China in 1974?
. @ realDonaldTrump …
Wrong again, # FuckingMoron. Typically poorly informed opinion and bad typing, on your behalf. Does being so pathetically stupid hurt?
For all of those who are luck enough to get an extra $1.50 per paycheck, don't spend it all in one place.
Obama Ridiculiza a Trump en Público
No difference at all. Plus I thought it didn’t kick in till next year. If it has there is no change
WHY WOULDN'T THE BUSHES BE BEHIND TRUMP 100%? Not only are the Bushes irate about Trump's comments about their "baby," but their loyalties need to desperately be exposed. They have not been what they appear... …
And what about these people’s jobs & families ?!! These are not active duty soldiers, what the hell
Those are the same ppl who freaked out about Griffins trump head picture
@ realDonaldTrump que se ¨pelien¨ los políticos ineptos, nosotros ciudadanos comunes, favor nos harán si depeñan a este gobierno títere de @ POTUS junto con sus militares mexicanos títeres de EEUUhttps:// …
Yeah Linda he's not the actor he's just some liberal who's been turtled up since trump won the election and he can't deal with it.
“Lib’ruls are eeevul! Trump tells it like it is! I don’t care that he had unprotected affairs and raped numerous women, he’s bringing coal back”
Pero en @ SEDATU_mx están apoyando a Donald Trump. La etnia que lucha contra el Muro en la @ CIDH necesita sus tierras en la frontera y en base a Discriminación se le niega. ¿Cuál es la verdadera postura de @ gobmx ? @ vromahn @ eriq_13 @ PegasusNSO @ SUD013https:// …
Fmr CIA CoS: Trump is “last person on earth” who should give advice about sexual assault … via @ msnbc
@ realDonaldTrump I wanted to ask, have you followed along with the walkout in Oklahoma. The teachers, support staff, students, and many others have preformed a walkout for an increase in pay. Please check into this, today is day 4.... Thank you!
Weren't the Trumps caught up in voting controversy? …
Maybe Trump can deploy the Natl Guard to teach. That seems to be his answer when he can't get his way!
These tunnels and and underground hideouts were all built for the politicians and their families. One of the biggest setups is under a famous hotel in DC. Some people need history lessons
People are so angry at Trump it’s like they think hating on Obama is the only way to get Trump’s racists on Bernie’s side. Personally I think that disrespecting Obama to win the racist vote is horse shit.
# Quislings
I live in a food desert. The nearest grocery store is miles away. I feel bad for anyone in my neighborhood without a car.
Clinton got impeached for a BJ......how is Trump getting away with this shit???
Sorry. Watched this game played long enough to realize the right is a sucker for expecting consistency, fairness, and a level paying field from the left. Williamson played footsie with the left to attack Trump and found out the left won’t return the favor.
I wouldn’t wish a heart attack on anyone. There are extremes in both parties. Let’s not forget your Ted Nugent calling for assasination. Or trump talking about letting the 2nd amendment people “take care” of Hillary. Your faux outrage is hilarious
Mexican president to Trump: ‘Nothing and no one stands above the dignity of Mexico’ - POLITICO viva México, …
@ realDonaldTrump announces pick to head Fish and Wildlife Div.
Well you can thank Obamacare! Anyone who likes it is getting it for free!
Trump doesn’t give a shit about this country nor does want to do anything by the book, he’s only interested running things his own way. He’s nothing but a dictating outlaw who considers all truthful facts fake news
Tom, nice Whataboutism!
It is the Bush’s war and the Globalist. Trump is shutting down the poppy fields and the illegal drug facilities. Our soldiers were guarding them. Not anymore.
@ realDonaldTrump @ potus @ vp @ mike_pence U FAILED XTIANS COMMUNIST ATHEIST ANTI-XTIAN China @ Chinamission2un @ PDChina CHINA Bans Online Bible Tightens Religious Controls Still POS @ JeffBezos @ Walmart IMPORT 88% from CHINA ITS GARBAGE FOR CHRISTIANS TO BUYhttps:// …
Trump aides prepare for him to void Obama's nuclear deal
@ FLOTUS @ realDonaldTrump …
Steve Schmidt is as clear and as eloquent in his assessment of Trump as anyone I watch. I have great respect for the Republicans who have stepped up on behalf of decency and the well-being of our country.
I dont' think its a coincidence that bernie bots, bernie and trump and putin all have matching talking points
There is no Trade war. US President Mr. Trump and America are asking for its fair share. America continued all these years charity to China and other countries. They enjoyed our free gifts. And, now when it is pointed out, they retaliate. UNFORTUNATE.
when this bozo TRUMP decided to run I stated he and his loyalist are out for one thing WAR. Trump has tried to go to war with MEXICO, IRAN, CHINA, Muslims, N. KOREA. Isn't it time to stop the bleeding and impose sanctions on this delusional DEMENTIATED FOOL? @ uscongress00https:// …
@ realDonaldTrump …
These internet arguments are self defeating aren't they? It feels like you never get heard, just keep getting more self-affirming thoughts from people waiting their turn to speak. It's exhausting. No one listens to each other. They just want to be right, to be the smartest Trump.
@ realDonaldTrump fuck you donald. Just Fuck You # trumprecession # marketkiller # TRADEWARS
@ OutFrontCNN No one will ever see Trump's taxes and Republicans will never allow gun law reform .
President Donald Trump say he was considering slapping tariffs on another $100 billion in Chinese imports, which would triple the amount of Chinese goods facing import levies … …
You idiot! People are not anti immigrant, they are against ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION! You know, Nation of Laws and such?...... Stop with your stupid lies. You have no shame. You do nothing to make your country proud.
Obviously, Trump has figured out he can short the market during trading hours, tweet a crazy tariff statement and then buy back profitably after his staff mollifies the market - his French fries were soft, do POTUS got upset....
221. - Donald Trump ...
@ MichaelAvenatti Thanks in advance. Seeking to read what you might like to impart re: Trump may be able to pardon shameless incompetence, shamelessly. ps May your Day be merry and bright as the twinkling eyes - seen, tonight, with you on @ MSNBChttps:// …
And to ramble incoherently.
Trump Denies Knowing of Any Hush Money Paid to Porn Actress
Trump pedirá a Latinoamérica elegir a Estados Unidos y no a China como socio comercial …
How high (or low) can he go?
People like Kristol may be Why for some, that DJT was elected in 2016..Now, among all the Bashing, Russia Witch Hunt, Threats, Late Night & Day Jokes..he's Stronger than Ever and MAGA .. Think what he could get done without all the silly BS .. Trump 2020 .. stay tuned
@ JoeNBC is a liar and just upset cause @ realDonaldTrump outed him and his girlfriend @ morningmika love affair (he’s her superior in work place @ MSNBC doesn’t mind office sex harassment) and Mika’s facelift. He’s a spoiled man boy who is liberal but pretends to be republican.
Well POTUS Trump would step up and help...but I’m damned sick of my Federal tax dollars going to CA. You guys want to have open borders, violate Federal law, then go stand alone, don’t ask us for help.
Everyone is obsessed with Trump, especially leftist.
I have a suspicion that a prolonged public conflict of egos would force Xi to use NK against Trump.
@ marthamaccallum "The Swamp" is enlightening to some but not to the Trump voters! We already know what is going on in DC! It's disgraceful and exactly WHY @ realDonaldTrump won. We are being RULED and politicians are in it only for themselves!
Trump is the downfall of America.
Trump says he wants to pull troops out of Syria and that he told Saudi Arabia they can pay for them if they want U.S. presence to remain …

Trump denies he knew about payment to porn star - Via The Washington Post Mr. Cohen, meet the Trump Bus, it will be backing over you now. As per @ TheRickWilson: Everything Trump Touches, Dies! # ByeFelicia # TrumpLies # TrumpBetrayalhttps:// …
# TrumpRussia # TrumpRussiaCollusion # TrumpCrimeFamily #
This is Daniel L.
So you figure two Harvard educated attorneys were making $85,000 / year. You know, a high school education would help you with that math.
@ realDonaldTrump …

This is the result of the snobbish tech culture that spread from Calif to Or,then Washington State, now they want Idaho and WATCH OUT NEVADA AND ARIZONA...”These people can truly act stupid”, # MAGA # EnoughIsEnough # California # PatriotsUnite # POTUS/ @ realDonaldTrump help our POTUS …
Kate Brown to defy Trump if Oregon National Guard ordered to U.S.-Mexico border - - @ washtimes ok so can she charged under the UCMJ for subordination to the Commander in Chief...I am pretty sure the commander of her NG can be...
Melania is complicit, she even sits in on meetings with Trump. Don’t let that miserable act fool you.
KEVIN WILLIAMS: They fired me for my opinio— I mean, jokes! BEN SHAPIRO: ᵗʰᶦˢ ᶦˢ ʰᵒʷ ʷᵉ ᵍᵒᵗ ᵀʳᵘᵐᵖ BIG KEV: what was that, lil buddy? ᴮᴱᴺ ˢᴴᴬᴾᴵᴿᴼ [shrinking before our very eyes]: ᵀᴿᵁᴹᴾ, ᵀᴿᵁᴹᴾ! BIG KEV: Benny?.. [sits, accidentally crushing him]

Trump do not have the balls to man up to china like that , thats big and represents america properly , now Mr. President it's time to show Us [ are you a MAN or mouse ? ]
Perdona, es que lo detesto, tanto como a Trump.
NBC News: What Nixon's Watergate blunders suggest about the trouble Trump is in now …
But it was ok when obama did it, am I right??
If Trump makes US threat list much bigger, he may be putting many US corps at risk, not only in sales to China, bur in their supply chains from China. They&US farmers will push back through Congress, likely weakening Trump's hand. …
Yeah right if you are upper or middle class, if they work for you they are screwed, just getting paid would be a bonus!
Peña Nieto responde a Trump tras envío de tropas a la frontera: "Nadie está por encima de la dignidad de México"
Obama is gone and Bush is no longer President. Keeping you posted
Trump will rob and mock CA if catastrophe ever hits. …
# unhinged
Very cute. Ya thos3 kind of dogs are tougher to train. Just takes patience
Finally, it’s going to China that’ll put a giant boot in that Orange Manbaby’s ass! Thank you, China! Hit ‘em where it hurts!
I’m thinking that’s Imposible trading with Trump!!! He must be short!! $ spy $ spx
Your poll is back. I finally voted
TWITTER IS AWESOME! YET PREACHING TO THE CHOIR -IF YOU OWN A PRINTER YOU CAN HELP FIGHT REPUBLICANS AND TRUMP IN THE STREETS BY PRINTING STICKERS AND POSTERS FROM TWITTER ART AND STICKING THEM ALL OVER YOUR TOWN
I don’t see state run Trump owned Fox.
You and he delusional!
You at the WH are living in an alternate world. Just like Trump putting out false approval numbers.
It is flat out # Disinfo & it is scary that that radio station insists # Trump never filed for bankruptcy - @ TAPSTRIMEDIA @ CBS @ MalcolmNance @ DavidCayJ @ MaddowBlog @ Lawrence # AmericanPravdahttps:// …
I’ll be very surprised if the inner circle of Trump isn’t trading the markets themselves.
"...at the same time in his Administration." Stock Market % gain: Obama: 46.31% Trump: 13.67%
Retweeted The Hummingbird ( @ SaysHummingbird): I. WOULD. LIKE. TO. HAVE. THIS. VIDEO. ON. LOOP. PLEASE. Trump's name being chiseled off the Trump International Hotel in Panama.
No, it's not.
Yeah, if there is an issue, you can rest assured that good old Joe has taken positions on both sides....... that working class BS is just
Disgusting, when Trump is impeached and indicted, all of his judicial appointments should be removed from their respective benches! …
The rats all come out to ride the cnn hate trump train. Lets check your bank account to his, then your resume to his, then maybe you all may realize how clueless you are. Keep making America great getting greater.
You know you spread out there half-truth his wife is legal her parents that came into this country are also legal they did not cross through Mexico and climb over the Border demanding, demanding that America give everything to them. Wake up will you
Because Mueller is in trump’s rear view mirror, he has done nothing productive as president, his White Supremacist base want’s America white again, the racist POS ! This another distraction from the Mueller Russia probe trump is guilty, guilty, guilty!
Imagine that
President Trump said Thursday he is ordering the US Trade Representative to consider $100-B in additional tariffs on Chinese goods, ratcheting up tensions with Beijing after his administration signaled it would be willing negotiate. S&P 500 Index futures slid as much as 1.2%
@ realDonaldTrump You might not find Kamala Harris all that funny? ○¿○,
...the Ukraine! Because your facist, gangster, criminal government back other facist, gangster, criminal governments, including Assad and Trump! We know you, Mister Ambassador! We know # Russia of old! This is not atypical of your country and your government! We've been here...
ADIOS!! Asked Wednesday whether Trump was comfortable with the alleged ethics lapses swirling around Pruitt, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was unexpectedly frank. "The president's not," she said. "We're reviewing the situation." …
NO sweetie...you don't understand our election process or what the word "Debate" means..but keep trying!! Someday maybe you will understand :).
Ole Trump gotta fuck shit up
Don’t forget it’s trumps fault for
Don’t unless you think trump is going to give him Sessions job.
A bit of awesome sauce to wash away some of today's # Trump & Co. news cycle taint. I had no idea baby # elephants giggled like this one does. It's literally the cutest thing EVER & your head may actually explode. # Elephants # BabyAnimals # TheResistance
An arbitration ruling cannot force President Trump to participate in a deposition. Only a court order can, and that motion has already been denied. This new petition/motion will be denied again along with angering the judge.
Just when theyve kinda figured out how crazy trump is, he can get more crazy china. Trust us.
@ realDonaldTrump keep Pruitt! …
President Trump: Save us from the GDPR horror show via @ martech_today
Coming to you live from the # ASEAN Finance Ministers meeting here in # Singapore soon on @ BloombergTV as @ realDonaldTrump steps up the fight in the tit for tat trade spat # trade #
Melania Trump: Stand With Immigrant Families - Like Yours!!! - Sign the Petition! via @ Change
El presidente Peña Nieto le dice a Trump que México esta listo y luego se hacen de palabras en Twitter.
@ realDonaldTrump has managed to make the Chinese the good guys on the subject of trade
Amazon’s Reach Into New Markets Is Helping the Company Shrug Off Trump’s Jabs … # robknews # feedly
Only 2 years max, if Mueller takes that long. I dont think it will, Trump’s no John Gotti.
In the last national election, 2 million illegal aliens voted in california ALONE. Anyone who tells you otherwise isn't telling the truth.
Warning from ex-Sec. of State Madeleine Albright: Trump is the most anti-democratic leader I have studied in American history....He's trying to undermine the press & he has disdain for the judiciary, the electoral process & minorities # cdnpoli # abpolihttps:// …
Trump: Migrant Caravans Raping Women at 'Levels Never Seen Before' | … via @ Newsmax
@ POTUS @ realDonaldTrump @ DonaldJTrumpJr @ FLOTUS WHY is this ok-the violent attacks on us a Trump supporters. We have lost friends/family/jobs/ etc b/c we voted for you. We never hear you stand up for us. We get deleted from social media, lied about, fired, obstructed - you quiet! …
hahahahaha. UGH!!! haha
@ realDonaldTrump es el doctor Manthattan de México, estamos tan hartos de todos los políticos y sus pensamientos mediocres, que solo un enemigo en común generaría un cese al fuego creíble para atacar un enemigo común. # TantitaMadre # PorUnMéxicoInformado
More stupid remarks
Well Trump hasn't met with anyone who praised Adolf Hitler.
DPRK is China's toy. Trump knows that. When we impose tariffs on China's junk, Kim will do something bad, and trump will ignore it. DPRK is a paper tiger.
Stop it Trump, youre stressing us to much !!!
@ lukeobrien account was suspended!
You wouldn't vote for anyone Trump nominated so spare us the vitriol. Too bad you can't be honest.
@ CoreyLMJones Following in Connor's Trump world group.
We'll be happy to send him to you. Postage due since you're such a fan. NO RETURNS.

Get a room!
Hey Nancy unlike you they work for their money everyday and it won't cost us anymore than what they get paid today...unlike your stupid ass who deserves nothing that you have
Pentagon Announces Border Security Cell to Implement Trump's National Guard Plan …
ES-DESK — México pide a Trump que "clarifique" en qué consistirá el despliegue militar en la frontera
President Trump knows more about business/trade than anyone in Congress, he’s a proven successful businessman and we need his leadership! #
The $50-a-night sweetheart rental from lobbyists only scratches the surface of the Trump appointee's ethical misbehavior. … via @ HuffPostPol
ES-DESK — China impone más aranceles a EU, Trump voltea amenazante hacia México y México… balbucea ...
Trump urges look at $100B more in tariffs against China; futures decline …
I don't think Trump values stability, everything he does is the opposite of stable. Every few days he gets bored and decides to decree things nobody thinks is a good idea except him. I mean, apparently his idea to send troops to the border even caught his own people off guard
Your the best! Thanx for keeping us posted
Evidence = observations / data that support a proposition. There are *vast* quantities of evidence in support of evolution. Enormous quantities of data and tests support that proposition. None of it is conjecture.
AP FACT CHECK: Trump is off on trade gap, border crossings …
Hang in there sister sometimes i just go right to the top of my notifications and keep on pushing!
Shaquille O’Neil expresses President Trump is doing a great job.
@ realDonaldTrump has no idea for our country. As proven in the past and present he's only on it for his "brand". Albeit his $ h!t+y brand.
UPS gives favorable bulk rates to a host of customers, not just Amazon. UPS probably needs Amazon more than Amazon needs UPS.
Why? @ realDonaldTrump you have children and grandchildren? Why are you such a monster? …
@ MichaelAvenatti is the bright light in all this! Go Michael!!!! Trump is actually really nervous about Michael Avenatti ... This is not Trump's first rodeo with Avenatti ... Trump lost the last time!
Previously Published on January 10, 2018@8:42am # Steve Bannon Was a “Bad Hire” by Trump, Says @ Scaramucci ║ … Filed in #2016 elections
Former CIA Director: Putin reassured by Trump's inconsistency … via @ msnbc
Wow! And here I was thinking she was talking about tRump!!
# MoreTrumpLies # GOPTaxScam is a windfall for Trump Org, wealthy and corps already flush with cash (until Trump screwed them with tariffs). Peanuts for regular people
So how can @ realDonaldTrump sue @ StormyDaniels for releasing information on a contract he didn't sign for an affair he didn't have for the payment he never made?
So trump commits adultery. Melania doesn’t really care because she wants her inheritance. I love their family values!
You have abandoned god for Trump.
Look at that. And we thought Trump couldn't bring people together
DACA!!! Dreamers! Another example? His new immigration standards enforce income requirements that most "legal" Americans couldn't even meet. He wants to end immigration altogether. You don't see it?
Trump left alone by his atty's is disaster looking for a place to happen.Can u imagine if he actually talks to Mueller without legal reps there!
Trump Was Supposed to Talk About Tax Cuts. We Got Rape, Immigrants, and Voter Fraud Instead. … # SmartNews
Actually, he’s worth billions more without being a garbage human.
Loved this mans analogy of illegals!! He is a legal, worked so hard for his citizenship!! You pay the ones who do it right, send home the ones who break the law!! Liberals can't get that through their empty heads!! We have law in spite of communist obama!!
Somebody tell me again how we’re going to win a trade war with China?
"Donald Trump has a staff infection," Democratic Rep. Jamie Raskin says of the controversy over EPA chief Scott Pruitt. "This is just an ethical sewer. ... The only wetland that the EPA chief has been protecting is the ethical swamp in Washington" https://
Let’s have Trump make his tax returns public so we can compare with Obama’s.
There is nothing you can do! The president is doing his job. Blame obama for leaving 100+ seats open for trump to fill. He handed trump a big gift with the courts. Seriously blame obama
President Donald Trump say he was considering slapping tariffs on another $100 billion in Chinese imports, which would triple the amount of Chinese goods facing import levies …
CALLATE CHACHALACA.
Trump is Pennywise?
Dem Darling Kamala Harris Attacks Trump's Border Wall - James Woods Moves in With Kill Shot …
I've heard from a few people that they wish @ realDonaldTrump dead. I think it would be a bad idea to make him a martyr. A life spent in suffering & loneliness in a prison is far more justified than him feeling nothing at all. # DumpTrump
Heidi Go back where you belong. Your ancestors are not from here
Trump owns a desk company?
Through taxes how??
I feel like I’ll never get to the bottom of my anger at the part of the church that supports Trump. They prove the truth means nothing to them. This destroys any trust in their discernment or integrity. Why should anyone believe them about anything - even the gospel - after this?
@ QveenJoan @ realDonaldTrump What the hell do you think? I disapprove!
How could Trump be so clueless about community colleges? | By Melissa Blake via CNNOpinion # TRENDING # TRUMP # MAGA # FACTCHECK # JAKETAPPER # CNN # FOX # BREAKINGNEWS
@ MichaelCohen212 buh-bye license to practice law.. hope it was worth it... @ realDonaldTrump demands loyalty... but doesn't give two shits about you. good luck.
Obstruction of Justice when went to the White House last year and spilled beans to tRump. Don’t worry, the truth will out. Have a nice day trumplthinskins....
Hear the story of an illegal immigrant who became a VP at Goldman Sachs. # DACA # DacaDreamers # Immigration # ImmigrationReform @ realDonaldTrump …
@ davidaxelrod @ SenatorBaldwin What legal repercussions does Corey Lewandowski face for his total disrespect of our House Intel Com and the elected officials presiding over it? He, like all Trump employees, is an arrogant ass who thinks he can get away with anything. Consequences
Trump today: “And yesterday it came out where this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before.” Fact: They were mostly women and children FLEEING violence and oppression. via @ politico Consummate # LiarInChief
Well just knowing the fact that he is not white, (seems to have a problem with them IMO) and still voted for Trump. Should tell you how dumb he is... haha voted against his own best interests because of communist facists haha
Trump considering new $100bn tariff on Chinese goods as trade feud escalates
Investigate him,,, and make it hurt!
He’s doing a great job & @ realDonaldTrump is way too smart to fire him
Trump always manages to be involved with paying women money for sex. This is for all of those fake Christians who think Trump is so religious. No he’s not. …
…
Trump floated replacing Sessions with Pruitt this week … @ chenoite
Is Putin Trump's top adviser on Syria?
Amy! @ realDonaldTrump administration AKA criminal operation IT IS CATCH ME IF YOU CAN ZERO ACCOUNTABILITY
Trump has offered all his friends pardons if they're charged, so they believe they're invincible. If Dems retake the House, we'll see how they like being charged for refusing to cooperate with official inquiries. Lewandowski's a nutcase in my view.
Trump mulls $100b more tariffs on China goods READ MORE
Pretty handy when you can create a crisis and then end it without doing anything except lying.
That is incorrect.
Siempre a sido así de los presidentes mexicanos, en especial de @ FelipeCalderon con su plan Mérida vendió la soberanía nacional por unos cuantos dólares.
Trump to End NAFTA over DACA? | Not all FL Students are Anti-Gun | Do you have your OPH kit? - …
You need us to fix your messes
Imaging waking up turning over and seeing you. Defiantly would pee my pants but we know you like that
Eu acho que é o contrário.
Trump will not win until he fixes voter fraud by illegals. The Dems are fixing the votes for 2020 as we Tweet. Don't be fooled.
Are you collecting & paying tariffs on your clothing line made in China & Mexico? How about Ivanka? Thinking we are going to have to check it out. We know the cheap maga junk you peddle is made in China. That's bringing jobs to America? Another of your lies.
Trump prepara envío de entre dos mil y cuatro mil militares a la frontera -
Morgan, please stop giving attention to the Russian trolls and bots. I'm surprised how many people on Twitter get caught up arguing with these "things"!
Netanyahu shares Syria concerns in call with Trump …
Historically bad tax cuts.
@ Applebees we eat at your restaurant EVERY WEEK however I see you sponsor the # JimmyKimmel show. We won't eat at APPLEBEES until you withdraw sponsorship. Mrs Trump should be shown respect not vile hatred sponsored by you!

. @ Milbank comes up with quite a litany of Trump boasting. …
Ya...'Trump being Trump'. Gee, how reassuring for Americans.
UN NEMESIS COMO..... PEÑA NIETO ??? o la gaviota cuando le ladro a todo Mexico... tal vez Mr Donald Trump ?
TRUMP SENDS IN THE FEDS – Sanctuary City Leaders Arrested, Charged via @ YouTube hell yes
Whoa: Feels like courage and common sense!
Saying he has no clue, is a bunch of B.S. He obviously didn't make a fortune, because he no clue. I agree/disagree on some of Trumps policies, but he isn't a "got no clue " type of guy.
CNN Likes Talking to Women Trump Supporters in Dallas - D Magazine …
Trumps now rank #1 …
@ realDonaldTrump announces pick to head Fish and Wildlife Div.
You are right - the right wing bigots like you will never get over a black president. Ever.
Oregon Gov. Will 'Say No' If Trump Asks Her To Send National Guard Troops To Border
Trump budget director Mulvaney: 'MAGAnomics' is working and defying critics - CNBC
What Is Going on with @ realDonaldTrump Pant Legs? One Humble Theory …
Oh yeah! Donnie is awesome!!!!
I believe it’s more than that
You served six presidents who bidding put US interests first and I will tell you @ realDonaldTrump is more concerned with the welfare of American citizens than his own popularity. He is constantly doing things bureaucrats like you recommend he not do, but so far it’s working …
@ realDonaldTrump - O Juiz Sergio Moro é o Maior Brasileiro de Todos os Tempos
What you don't know on November 17th 2015 Admiral Mike Rogers approached president-elect Donald Trump and laid out everything he knew about uranium one and the entire Obama administration embezzling trillions out of our government and the corruption in the FBI CIA and DOJ
Trump aldığı pozisyona göre söylemlerdemi bulunuyor acaba
@ TheRickWilson I can't wait till Xi puts a huge tax on all Trump (plus Ivanka's) branded products coming out of China.
# Trump to promote US as trade 'partner of choice' at Peru summit -
Hey wait, I thought it was supposed to be a white male Trump supporter with a scary black gun?!
Trumps Lawyers Claim Stormy Daniels Violated Confidentiality Agreement at Least … …
@ JohnBrennan star-chamber congressional testimony citing “unnamed sources” was an integral part of this coup attempt. Indict him (and others), Try him, Hang him for sedition. @ realDonaldTrump @ VP @ JudgeJeanine @ Judgenap @ marklevinshow @ seanhannity @ dbongino @ USAGSessionshttps:// …
Fox News there’s. Reliable source for information.
Trumps close friend is a competition between Amazon and his company. His friends businessIs losing to . Now you know why Trump keeps talking about Amazon. Amazon has raised ratesFor our post office by 50%. …
Trump Doubles Down on Potential Trade War With China And there is any doubt he’s out to cause more chaos.
The # Pentagon # Generals once again gently turning # Trump around & reversing his # specialinterest # policies. This time # Putin's policy of # American withdrawal from # Syriahttps:// …
Not sure where you are going with this. Trump didn’t expect to win the election but he wanted to win hearts. He said what was needed to win them. Trump didn’t appreciate the responsibility and the scrutiny although Melania did........
Trumps approval is now higher than “O” at this same point of term. That’s hurts don’t it. Stop hating America.
Lo invito para llegar a acuerdos diplomáticos, a nuestra nación ni a ninguna otra le es útil que las relaciones entre vecinos sean deplorables, acciones hostiles como la de Donald Trump llevan a guerras y cosas por el estilo que a decir verdad son estupideces. Para eso el hablar.
Imagine twitter if Trump got murked lol
Or what -in order to avoid the tariffs they have to pay him more money? Trump is all about illegal dealings & getting money for him time.

Trump breaks silence on Stormy Daniels and immediately makes things worse for himself. Wonder why he won't meet with Mueller? …
Yes but now our health insurance has gone way up Again! Something has got to be done about the insurance companies rates, almost $300 a week for crappy insurance!! That's more than our house payment! I'll do better to cancel our policy and self pay it's cheaper!
Sorry, Trump just got the damn bill today
Your still off your meds Jacob. Delusional thinking is dangerous if left untreated and may result in serious cognitive deficits.
Chicago News As Trump tweets, Amazon seeks to expand its business empire
@ realDonaldTrump last month you were buddies ready to solve all the problems. Go ahead and screw with The Chinese. Idiot President
@ realDonaldTrump que se ¨pelien¨ los políticos ineptos, nosotros ciudadanos comunes, favor nos harán si depeñan a este gobierno títere de @ POTUS junto con sus militares mexicanos títeres de EEUU
Hell of a lot more than what Trump has done, oh I forgot, trump stole from his foundation for an ugly portrait of himself
Trump wins again. Always have been a winner
HOWEVER, I am voting straight Dem for the next two elections. The # BlueWaveIsComing, and that’s what you fucktards get for voting for Trump.
If @ realDonaldTrump's hair was any thinner and faker he'd say it reminded him of his daughter and fuck it.
Trump afirma que no sabía nada del pago a Stormy Daniels por su silencio … via @ elpais_inter
Who the f*ck is this?
@ SarahHuckabeee @ SarahHuchabee @ SHSPRESSSEC @ realDonaldTrump tell us again how the President is not a Liar!

CNN sucks again. Who cares about soybeans. let them eat cake. Trump started all of this because China is STEALING U.S. patent tech and making crappy products. I think CNN is anti-American.... …
So why is the Clinton Foundation still going strong? The trump foundation was shut down for fraudulent use of funds. The Clinton Foundation is still providing humanitarian services all over the world. # Indoctrinated
'They sat for several hours together. They literally laid out the future map of the entire region..." So... who's planning what, who's in and who's out? Ought to make all our Allies wonder where the USA stands on any and every thing.
The Immigration Wave Is Over, but Trump Is Sending Troops to the Border Anyway … via @ thedailybeast
Political Editors: McCabe's Wife Blames Trump for His Firing — The Patriot Post …
A cheeky idea: Mexican businessman rolls out 'Trump' toilet paper Maybe Mexico can use this toilet paper to build the wall. …
How is dinner with your husband these days? Can the poor man even eat? I'm sure he is very nauseous watching this administration .
Thank you so much !
Go back to bed Andrea.
Smh ... you should really watch something other than Fox!
Does mean trump can sue the states for not enforcing drugs laws and immigration?
Here as in the US? You do realize Puerto rico IS part of the US!?! Smh
So let's see if I get this right... Pruitt goes against the WH directives and uses a trick to give raises to his scrooges; then he does a disaster interview no one told him to do & now he demotes the people Trump put there. This guy is making @ realDonaldTrump look like a wuss.
Sad but true. Although there was a report recently that Trump was not under criminal investigation - at this time, so that was interesting.
You're the fake news. There was never a caravan. You racist piece of lying shit
I dont agree. Bernie says nothing, we remain divided. His people are just as radical as trumps. But we can disagree
DONALD J TRUMP is yet again deflecting his guilt of stealing an election by conspiring w//RUSSIAN OWNED GOP by making FALSE CLAIMS that "Millions of people voted illegally" Sigh....Donnie dumb dumb is so predictable you can set Muellers watch by his actionstic tock …
We don't know what he's wearing under his pants.
America needs to wake UP! Trump will go or we kick him out of the White House!
Someone needs to stop psycho @ realDonaldTrump .... may # StormyDanielsDay
You mean they've been cooperating all this time ? Don't think we'll notice any difference !
Let's not re-elect Trump.
How many times did you go bankrupt, again, @ realDonaldTrump ?
The truth of the matter is no one knows how this will unfold. Anyone that claim to know is purely talking hogwash. Not even Trump knows how it will end.
If they aren't their sitting ducks soon to be a victim then see what happens

It’s difficult to see how Trump “instructing USTR to consider whether $100 billion of additional tariffs would be appropriate” sends a message about “consequences.” It says Trump is not afraid to escalate rhetoric, but not whether he will follow through on his threats. …
Moments Ago, President Trump Did What No One Was Expecting, Changing ALL... via @ YouTube
Trump's corruption and Friends might be shorting the Markets by adding 100 Billions tariff on China or another deflection from Stormy Story hot topic tonight
And trump is responding to 3 decades of IP theft and unfair license requirements
Fact: Point drops are meaningless. Only percentage drops matter. Second fact: The Dow is up 23.2% since Trump was elected (18.8 to 24.5 as of close today). Third fact: Corrections (market drops) will always occur and market volatility is a sign of a healthy & vibrant economy.
Watch in real time as Larry Kudlow loses his reputation as he moves to the dark side in Trumplandia.
More winning from dear leader trump! Thanks @ GOP
"Knockaknock" (who's there?) "I'm @ realDonaldTrump and on this # MLK50 day that has something to do with # MLK - I mean I already talked about this, like a month ago? Anyway he did great things..." (remember the football players who peacefully # TakeAKnee ?) "THOSE SONS OF BITCHES!"
Or a BIG squirrel distraction away from his Stormy comment. # StormyTariffs
Now with Trumps retaliation of $100 billion in tariffs, that should get the attention of his base. But it won’t.
# unhinged
Why do actors actually think anyone gives a sh** what they think. Move out of the country ...... please. I love our President Trump.
Has any president offered to sit down with korea, who is now agreeing to denuclearize? No. Isis WAS the creation of obahma. Yes, he implemented a gwb promise to withdraw three years into his term, should not have as history demonstrated, all for domestic political reasons.
De los grandes aciertos de esta administración. # priceless Mexico Agrees to Pay for Trump’s Psychiatric Care
Yep. It's going to turn a lot of middle America blue. You can see it in Bredesen's early polling. People are going to vote for 'not crazy' and anyone who will 'check Trump' because he is f'ing crazy.
Agreed. If I’m an employer who wants 2 pay my CEO $10M/yr, but the marginal rate over $5M is 55%, I’m gonna put my $ elsewhere, like in the pockets of my lower level employees. More disposable $ for more ppl buying cars and homes, going on vacations, sending kids to college...
Just like Trump...they all work for themselves not for America!
The ever Controversial Trump just gave out his Attorney, Jail definitely waiting for him!!! But how can Trump don't know?
En el ajedrez de la guerra comercial EU-China, Trump mueve sus piezas de nueva cuenta y propone 100 mil mdd adicionales en arenceles al gigante asiático. El conflicto sigue escalando de intensidad, y no hay señales de que quieran todavía negociar.
How about his staunch supporter of Sinclair broadcasting? What is Congress going to do about this? It seems reporters and broadcasters are forced to say things they don’t believe and Trump is gloating about it. Help! Our freedom of the press is on the line
Hearing voices again?
Dear Morgan. Don't need your apology for the things that only a minority, in the voice of one man, things. We know that most of US people do not think like that. However, your tweet is an example of friends we appreciate north of the border and worth having in live. A Mexican
Trump afirma que no sabía nada del pago a Stormy Daniels por su silencio …
I am a reach how about you?
Militarización de la Frontera - Mensaje íntegro del Presidente hacia las Mexicanas y Mexicanos y hacia el Presidente Trump >>> … …
@ realDonaldTrump Sooner he does it the sooner we get him OUT of our Whitehouse?!?!?! …
You definitely live in a alternative universe.
If you really want to stop drugs, talk to big pharma! They helped create the heroin epidemic we are facing in America today!
Stop crying already, Trump has made you as well as other upper class Americans much richer
Now, I need to go find my eye bleach.
They have been trying that on trump now for 20 years tell me how is that working out
Who or What is Q? # QAnon # HRCVideo # InternetBillOfRights . @ realDonaldTrump … # QAnon via @ BenWatching2
New Show! Today we talk Illuminati, Batman gets fat. We get into a weird fight over a trucks, Plus, a crazy man launches himself into space. … # batman # benaffleck # stormydaniels # flatearth # readyplayerone # illuminati # newworldorder # trump # dc # Aquaman
It is sad that little man-boy Trump is unable to comprehend or understand what kind of an area that El Paso really is, instead of the lies he puts out about places like this. …
Bad Trump, bad, bad, Trump. Can you hacks please find a new tune to sing? This one sided “reporting” is not only disingenuous it’s boring.
I believe so its also supposedly a place where all global leaders secretly meet We r sheep to them many tunnels r used everywhere we need to wake up and unite they are desperately trying to blame a global conflict on trump so they can sweep back in and save us
Is this what Hoppie calls a little white lie? Trump: I'll eliminate U.S. debt by end of 2nd term @ CNNPoliticshttp://
Something VANILLA as this y'all fight each other over press coverage, but EXPOSING REAL CORRUPTION is against youse principles! This leads me to believe America's best kept secret is Blacks are STILL considered # NonCitizenSlaves in per the # DredScottDecision & Media is in on it!
It will be interesting to see if China’s response further squeezes areas that supported Trump
Does this surprise anyone with at least an ounce of sense. Trump and All GOP are heartless greedy disease spreading cocķroaches.
Yet leave it to Fox to take an annual Via Crucis caravan as a US invasion and totally freak our Trump and Trumpers. What a banana
Because Obama got it stated? Trump is scary. He could ruin us with his dumb trade wars, and his giving more wealth to the wealthy in the so-called tax cuts. Congress and the public don't trust him. Trump must go.
El presidente de México apela a Trump después de un aluvión de tweets: “Actitudes amenazantes” no justificadas …
I want to push you closer to Trump... But I hesitate.
FACT CHECK: Trump Repeats Voter Fraud Claim About California - … via
Always use protection!,
Trumps always wheeling and dealing to make money, legal and illegal.
Trade wars topped out in the years between WW1 & WW2. Vindictive victors of WW1 laid the path for WW2. 2016-21 mark the next years of potential conflicts. @ realDonaldTrump Those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it> FREE
WTF do you know about uniting Americans?
Dow Jones futures don't look happy about tonight's new tariff threats from the White House. Trump is building bigger and bigger roller-coasters for traders to ride.
El presidente de México apela a Trump después de un aluvión de tweets: “Actitudes amenazantes” no justificadas …
Yes I think they do. Do you care that another woman had a contract and only 1 part of that contract was fulfilled and left 4 other parts unsigned by trump . Trump screwed her she wants it invalidated.. you may not care but a lady has got some of her life back today..thats awesome
Trump "Hire Americans" just files for H2-B foreign worker authorizations for: 10 servers 4 cooks for his NYC golf course. He requested 400 foreign workers since he became president. It is so hard to find cooks and servers in the deserted New York State @ NYGovCuomo
I am with you in thanking Mr Freeman but I disagree in thinking Mr Trump “forgets” instead I would say with due respect, he does not know.
imagine waking up and seeing you.......
Trump says he wants to send 2,000 to 4,000 National Guard members to US-Mexico border # FoxNews
Even McMaster blasts Trumps inaction on Russia. Fox is up Trumps ass so far it's nauseating. They have always been the propaganda arm of the Republican party. Hannity Carlson lngraham are nothing more than opinion shows. Try researching real news for once! …
Yes. But they can be federalized.
@ todd_harrison another overnight tape bomb as Trump looks for an additional 100B in tariffs on China that plus the payroll number tomorrow.
The swamp is getting even swampier. Pruitt may be the biggest crook in D.C. right now, and that's saying a lot since @ realdonaldtrump spends time there in between trips to and from Mar-a-Lago. …
Well, they'll need more than spines. They'll need to get their cajones back from tRump and NRA. …
Why China Is Confident It Can Beat Trump in a Trade War
This about his cabinets expenses. Congress needs to look at the millions @ realDonaldTrump crime family is spending on travel.
# Tiger won’t win # TheMasters # Kyrie is out, how far can # celtics go # conormcgregor is 100% a fool & # Trump NEVER KN… …
At tax reform roundtable, Trump releases another dispatch from his dark and diseased mind …
Trump claims female migrants 'are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before' …
@ realDonaldTrump if you could stop causing stocks to lose value with your tweets that would be great
Trump's rating are higher with US citizens than Brennan's rating from his family.
Newly-released documents reveal stunning collusion between FBI, CIA, top Dems and Obama as Trump probe began …
@ realDonaldTrump Pence is setting you up.
Quietly, Trump Officials and California Seek a Deal on Car Emissions
Este cartón, de @ monerorape, ejemplifica la política mexicana frente a EU en materia de relaciones
Your tipping off your rich friends.
TWITTER IS AWESOME! YET PREACHING TO THE CHOIR -IF YOU OWN A PRINTER YOU CAN HELP FIGHT REPUBLICANS AND TRUMP IN THE STREETS BY PRINTING STICKERS AND POSTERS FROM TWITTER ART AND STICKING THEM ALL OVER YOUR TOWN
You misspelled “Stupid and needless trade war”
You just got to listen to The Big Red Despot, @ realDonaldTrump. If this was SNL it couldn’t cause more hilarity. …
@ Sen_JoeManchin the sad thing is that the @ realDonaldTrump @ POTUS spoke the truth about you today. I use to think you were a good guy but you proved me wrong when you voted no.
Trump floated replacing Sessions with Pruitt this week: via @ YouTube
The "Never Trumpers" and Kasich supporters don't particularly diverge from Trump. Their argument is all about tone and style over substance. Up to me, I'd rather be dealing with the Westboro Baptists than people who make the same arguments in a suit and tie
Such a dangerous game of chicken @ realDonaldTrump
What the whore of porn star "claims" (unsubstantiated) happened years & years & years ago before Trump even thought about running for president. Bill did it in the White House (undisputed) and lied WHILE he was POTUS. If you don't see the difference then that's your problem.
¡Bien dicho, mi Juan!
I hope @ realDonaldTrump starts a trade war! Gosh I hope he does. Yeah it is going to hurt the economy but you know who it’s gonna hurt the most??? Trump supporters!!! He tried to take away their healthcare they didn’t listen. Now he is hurting their pockets # bringontradewar
read this Why Small Businesses Will Pay the Price for President Trump's Trade … …, see more
Somo 125 millones que podemos dejar de mantenerlos,
PRESIDENT TRUMP WARNS MEXICO: "I hope you're telling that caravan not to get to the border" [Video] … via @ 100percFEDUP
It’s Here! The Trump Executive Order That Will Deport 11 Million Illegals via @ YouTube
It's impossible to reason with his cult.
CNN Likes Talking to Women Trump Supporters in Dallas …
Wraithing comes quickly when trade wars are on the line. @ joshtpm Larry Kudlow: Trump's tariffs on China may not go into effect
AMLO PIDE A TRUMP RESPETO A LOS MEXICANOS . …
Thank you very much for a corageous gesture Morgan... Hopefully, our President @ EPN will also notice your tweet; we hope he'll do something about Donald's rant. Saludos!
Y'all remember the movie "Shooter"?? Rewatch!!!!! Especially NOW!!!!!! @ realDonaldTrump # EVILCIRCUS # ItsTime # UnitedWeWin
Can Trump POSSIBLY be SO stupid as not to understand that ANY country's natural reaction to being subjected to tariffs is automatically to impose reciprocal tariffs??? …
You’re 100 % with me! Love you, appreciate all you do in the face of so much opposition. We see& know. Keep up the good work!
Trump floated replacing Sessions with Pruitt this week despite scandals …
Donald don’t worry about the haters, spend more time crafting policies that will work! Everyone is gonna bitch about it anyways!
Is @ realDonaldTrump welcome to give a speech in your home state?
Pues no sé qué le aplauden a @ EPN si nosotros los mexicanos dejamos de tener dignidad ante E.U. desde el momento que Trump vino a México. EPN a Trump
Really who cares this whole story is nonsense and will accomplish zero.
So now # Trump is in a pissing contest with China & # USA citizens will pay dearly for it...but not # Trump # TrumpCrimeFamily # SwampCabinet who are living the # LifestylesoftheRichandFamous at taxpayers' expense. # VoteBlueNoMatterWho
KUSI PHOENIX (AP) — The Latest on President Donald Trump’s order for the National Guard to deploy to the U.S…
Trump Doubles Down on Potential Trade War With China - The New York Times …
As a conservative I will say you are a piece of . I don’t support everything trump does but it was very clear with that omnibus bill you pushed through without letting anyone read. It was meant to stab trump in the back and have him lose his base.
Trump is so concerned about voter fraud that he shut down his Presidential Voter Fraud Commission three months ago without releasing any of the commission's findings.
Trump is such a habitual liar, he’ll never fess up
It's always the other person's fault with Trump. Now he screaming "unfair retaliation" by China. Trump is putting our economy in more jeopardy. “Trump threatens $100 billion in additional tariffs against China” …
Fact check: Trump repeats voter fraud claim about California …
Trump Riyadh any day now
"Incoming..."
HOLY SHITBALLS! Trump has a way of snatching defeat from the jaws of victory more than anybody I know. What’s funnier, his “base“ knows it and refuses to acknowledge this. They just don’t want to admit that “their guy” is a failure at every level. # Ego is a bitch!
Trump is planning his next move as Mueller is closing in on him. It’s not good. Congress needs to act. Mueller needs to indict.
Mexico has repeatedly said that they won't pay for a wall. Trump begged the Mexican president, who flat out refused. Then he said he'd make 'em pay thru tarrifs, which means American consumers pay. Now he wants the military to pay, which means American taxpayers pay.
Deep swampy state threatens freedom of Our Dear Leader. Media threatens freedom of Our Dear Leader. # cult45 demands Our Dear Leader by free to due as he pleases. Our Dear Leader is the the embodiment of human perfection. Our Dear Leader will # MAGA All hail Our Dear Leader
Like most all so called entertainment TV talk shows.
I don't see where he helped her. I don't kiss rings, let it be noted. Have no opinion other than that I don't want Bernie to help Trump again. I get your frustration w/ Dems, but worth noting principles don't mean a lot if you're never elected, even less if you get Trump elected.
My bad that's a cheap wig you got on your head
No, historians agree.
We can be grateful for the rabid incompetence of Trump's little Band of Ignorants. Thanks to their stupidity, the extent of their corruption is readily evident and their downfall is spectacular. Even @ foxnews handed this guy's ass to him on TV!!
Robert Mueller Found The Smoking Gun Email He Can Use To Convict Trump … # CCOT - What a load of BS. 1) No proof Russia hacked DNC servers 2) Stone met with Assange Not Russian operative 3) Stone isn't most reliable person on the planet, in fact he's weird.
You sink to a new low every breath you take.
@ realDonaldTrump …
Yep ...pretty much an out of control situation for too many people in mex
If he drained the swamp he would dry out.
@ ShepNewsTeam Shep, given this evil presidency, the lies, cover ups, deflections and deceptions, there's chaos 24X7. However, it seems that gossip queen, crooked Sean @ seanhannity, trashed you to Trump during a Mar-a-Lago visit last weekend. Someone familiar told Vanity Fair.
'Drunk guy at the end of the bar' is my go-to for @ realDonaldTrump also 'treasonous gasbag.' …
Today, after a 400 point Dow drop, # Trump wants another $100B in tariffs...He really wants to turn trade war into a shooting war doesn't he?
Trump may be immoral, but he's got more experience at sexual assault than anyone.
I doubt any of your voters thought they were voting for someone who is waaaay less of a true capitalist than @ BarackObama....but Trump only wanted to monetize his position not help ordinary people. SAD!
@ realDonaldTrump was watching golf on Air Force 1 before someone dragged his ass over to reporters to answer some of theirs questions with lies. # MAGA my ass.
Trumps a liar wake up , he’s fake news
Ellen is a monster
China does need to be careful. The map of their tariff target states are basically red states. Trump could easily manipulate that to his advantage: "see, the Chinese are evil and trying to hurt American farmers. Americans! I'm fighting to protect us from the evil Chinese!"
Trump is the creator of this deep swamp. Trump slogan from 2016. Make America weaker, tall border wall and make Americans pay for it, deep swamp in White House, give all money to rich and corporations.
.. / As Avenatti pointed out, Trump appears to have thrown Cohen “under the bus” with the statement .. / .. with the NY State Bar Association? .. …
And don't forget motor voter law in CA either. Now these illegals can go amywhere in US. Show CA DL and be accepted as citizens. Maybe Texas needs a new law? Not to accept CA DL.without Birth certificate?
@ POTUS @ TheJusticeDept when will this Madness end and when the real crooks get charged with crimes. Mueller, Rosenstien, Comey, McCabe, The Clinton’s and Ocrapa and his team? Well America wants to know
It’s true.
Poll shows support for Trump’s immigration stance slipping among key group
Ex-CIA officer Phil Mudd lights up Trump for being the 'liar-in-chief' on voter conspiracy theory …
Compulsory photos if dictators is a trade mark of fascist, socialist and communist dictators ....way to go USA!!!!....oh how the mighty fall...lol..Crazy Clown Nation!!!
Jeff Sessions & Co. are keeping such a tight lid on their investigations that even devout Trump supports think they are dropping the ball... but that's the only way this process will be successful. # MAGA # LockThemUphttps:// …
Y los niños del colegio? Y los que mato amlo? Y el lavado de dinero de los zabganos hijos del mesías? Y lo que se robo de su gob. Del D.F.? Y lo de EVA? Bejarano? IMAZ? Lo que se ribo del 2do. Piso? 20 años de no trabajar? El apoyo al narco? Etc.
Is there any doubt # Peanut has no clue about how businesses or governments are ran? Trump Doubles Down on Potential Trade War With China
Yes we know Trump is a racist idiot and his followers mostly are as well. The thing is that the real news isn’t what he says... what do you expect a racist moron to say? It’s that he says it and we get distracted by it
Are you effing kidding me this is your plan
@ howardfineman: Masterful analysis & detail on Scott Pruitt & his standing among Trump Team of Traitors. Well done (but you always have something pivotal to note)! @ HardballChris has great friends. @ MSNBC @ chucktodd
You are flipping CRAZY
This system is legally set up for them to file. Again, we rigorously put this into place in 1996. By our own laws, it is legal for them to file and accept the outcome.
You can stick your head in the sand. As for me? I'm keeping my eyes wide open. Its disgusting how you are manipulating innocent
Exclusive: Scott Pruitt, Trump’s embattled EPA chief, involved in shady 2011 real estate deal …
I think those are family resemblance there if you look at dr. evil or mr. evil and Donald Trump I don't know maybe I'm just losing my eyesight or something
Ok, I am freaking tired of winning now.
Trump Has More BIG PLANS For the Military at the U.S.-Mexico Border – Truthfeed …
Ivaded OMFG! LOL
Look back, Q has consistently said things about these fakes. Re: LV and YouTub{e} But there actually saying Parkland is "FAKE." You can lead people to water...
This is GASLIGHTING! YOU are a danger to the country and world, you should be baker acted the next time you're at mar a lago Trump asks for $100 billion more in tariffs against China
Wow! California Democrat Sen. Kamala Harris Cracks Death Joke About President Trump (Video) – …
You are a huge fool little joey.
Well now you have all of that attention that you so desperately wanted. You're next on the list of people to go to jail for skeletons in your closet after Govt paid Greyhats let them out
Trump's Most Influential White Nationalist Troll Is A Middlebury Grad Who Lives In Manhattan
On a WANTED POSTER!
If Trump is Hitler, why do you want America to hand over all their guns to him?
Analysis | Outgoing Trump administration officials keep sending distress signals - The Washington Post …
Trump drove over him with a bus trumps really a moron
# MuroFronterizo Esta es la explicación del por que quiere Trump desplegar soldados en la frontera con México, para que se entienda de que habla todo el mundo en # MexicoCuentaConmigo # tultitlan # bonitojueveshttps:// …
who the fuck would vote for trump out of the drag race season 10 cast???? people say it's eureka but she's educated enough to not vote for him
$20 more per check. I'll be sure to donate it to Stormy Daniels Go Fund Me. We shall see when it comes time to file 2018 taxes...
Thanks, Trump, for hurting everyone's retirement accounts. # losinghttps:// …
Dutch lawyer 30 days in jail $20K fine and 2 years probation, who collided with the Russians.... Mueller special counsel team!! That’s who!! This is a bs investigation for mueller and team to make money off taxpayers!
I think trump will bankrupt the US like he did to his own companies. Also just wondering if he is personally profiting by these tariffs. If not what’s the point of them. Guess he doesn’t realize were globally connected.
Trump, the GOP, Fox watchers, & their ilk have to be thanked for one thing. That we are reminded on a daily basis what true Patriotism is, espoused by free thinkers such as @ SteveSchmidtSES . And how treason has crept into our society and government like an inoperable malignancy.
Sit down Sheila
Anda atenta que siempre algun conocido te cruzas! El día q llegamos, en el hall de la Trump Tower estaba Lenny Kravitz! Y como una boluda me quedé paralizada sin poder reaccionar ante el q fuera mi ídolo de la adolescencia y juventud
Trump signs order to deploy National Guard to U.S.-Mexico border …
Currrent Trump Approval: 40.2% Approve, 53.8% Disapprove, Net Approval -13.6 Source:
So all of Hillary's 95 or 98% chance of winning weren't skewed? Got it.
Trump Fears Next Election Will Be Decided by Americans … Thank goodness for our prescient humorists.
Because the corruption starts at the top. He’ll be gone before next week I’m guessing. Trump doesn’t like it when his lackeys give a “bad TV performance...”
Trump trade threats: Question needs to be asked....Just how much is the U.S. President making as he manipulates the markets with noise? # business # WallStreetJournal
I wouldn't call that around the block. Maybe down the sidewalk, definitely not around the block.
Yeah I know, but how do Y-O-U suppose he's a cheat.
People are going to do what they are going to do, there is no getting around it. Like abortions, no matter what abortions will always happen, doesn't matter what you do.Laws should work within human behavior, especially when it doesn't actually hurt anyone, like them working here
You must be a real pansy if an 87 year old actor gives you pause and you think old and wrinkled is attractive.
Trump conjures a new immigrant rape epidemic …
Hey Stephanie. Do you think the DOW will tank tomorrow?
OMG, YOUR TOO FUNNY,
Attacks by @ POTUS are defamation of Amazon's character, with clear intent to cause financial harm. If I were the owner of Amazon, I would haul Trump's a$$ into court. On top of that, when he causes the market to lose points with tweets, he's stealing from all of our 401Ks.
Maybe trump can shit a real life David Dennison. Better yet maybe someone like @ JacobAWohl or @ TedNugent @ DevinNunes @ seanhannity or any one of the thousand creepy GOP fuckers that would do anything, to get @ realDonaldTrump approval, can claim they are the real # DavidDennison
really sick people
Next they'll be telling us that Trump was sleeping with Russia & colluding with Stormy.
@ realDonaldTrump the only way you know how to raise the issue of sexual assault is by describing your own behavior.
Help I’ve fallen and I can’t get up ..
Sarah Sanders Asked About Trump’s ‘Urgency’ To Protect Southern Border — She Drops A Wall - …
How did Obama do any rebuilding? He was handed a debt of 9 trillion and left with a debt of 20 trillion.
Mexico Agrees to Pay for Trump’s Psychiatric Care While some Mexican taxpayers argued that a full course of treatment could cost more than a border wall, the Mexican President warned against skimping on such a necessary expense. …
Nunes needs to crawl back up trumps arse until he gets voted out # Resistance # BlueTsunami2018https:// …
Lol lucky for me I don’t live in your shitty country. I live in Canada so you can have fun with your trumps America
Trump repeats debunked voter fraud claim …
Trump Rushes to Sinclair's Defense as His Administration Considers Broadcaster's Takeover of Local Airwaves …
There is a middle, somewhat approve and somewhat disapprove, being the middle.
This is 2 peas in a pod here. The picture alone is hilarious. It's worth a watch just for the laugh both fake news conspiracy
I suppose I should be elated that it appears we have traded one group of 60/40 transparency for..... a different group with limited transparency? Is it supposed to comfort me that YOU know more than the rest of us? # transparency @ realDonaldTrump # WeThePeople

Reality check: German Daily ‘Die Welt’ awards # President # Trump & # USA as “World’s Most # Successful # Climate # Protector” of ALL countries by most # CO2 # reductions in 2017. @ DanRather @ Revkin @ Tan123 …
Not going to @ Applebees 's since they sponsor @ JimmyKimmelLive he has finally bit his nose off to spite his face all because he hates Trump and his family and can't stop wasting our time with his defamatory monologues.
He is in a dream world of his own making, but we're going to change it into a nightmare come November 6 #
The Associated Press: Going off script, Trump bashes immigration at tax cut event. …
@ maddow what reality is Trump living in? again, he is ranting about Mexican rapists. may b Fox news can report on teachers' disgraceful salaries, or gang violence in Chicago, or needing money to cure cancer, or childhood hunger in US?
You're contradicting your points. You believe making drugs illegal reduces deaths but making certain guns illegal wont. We're trying to stop the funding of drug cartels which are the source of widespread immigration from down south. Solution: Make it unprofitable.
Hi again @ POTUS - it's your daily reminder to # FreeAssange. We need him, the world needs him. You can do it!! @ JulianAssange
TRUMP se lo regalamos Palangristas de baja tarifa, ese gringo ya está temblando ante medidas de nuestros grandes aliados comerciales, políticos y militares # China # Rusia # Iran ect. Mientras más ataquen nuestra Revolución Bolivariana y Chavista más nos fortalecemos NO VOLVERÁN
The only thing consistent about trump is that he lies with every breath! I just can't believe what our country has come to when we have a mentally deranged man in the WH with access to nuclear weapons.
Obama laid the ground work for U.S. to become the world leader in Solar. One of the fastest growing industries. Trump killed the program. With it, hundreds of thousands of jobs. So much for being “The best job creator”. President dumbass.
What isn't repugnant on balance with Trump, his spawn, his sycophants and the GOP? What am I missing?
Trump has Deadpool's baby hand.
@ realDonaldTrump can't keep his mouth shut. Hurray!
That’s baloney. There was a motion in the parliament that condemns islamophobia that made some people concerned that there could be an argument to use that to support Sharia Law. Alarming? Maybe? But hardly a move to legalize it.
Trump propõe mais US$ 100 bilhões em tarifas contra a China - … via
Hear ya, it was tough in sep but after Maria it got tougher but we're hanging in there.
Ejemplo; algunos de nuestros funcionarios y hasta el cerdo de donald trump! Felicidades karla!!!
Trump says he wants to send 2,000 to 4,000 National Guard members to US-Mexico border # FoxNews
@ realDonaldTrump your tax cuts are a joke. The pennies you gave to the middle class are all being eaten up by your trade war. # dumbestpresidenteverhttps:// …
@ mperezpirela.Saludos .Rana el 1ro q nos hace mofa y nos acosa es el anciano de Trump.

Mexico isn't too Impressed with you @ potushttps:// …
@ realDonaldTrump # MAGAnomics are defying critics # Trump # Maga # Trump2020https:// …
# overheard A first date where the man appears to be a trump supporter and the woman is not. Things have devolved very quickly. Crash. Burn. Where is FEMA? Snap. They went from Trump bankruptcies to DACA in a blink of an eye.
He keeps making Trump-like statements. Tell us HOW …
Former Trump aide approved 'black ops' to help Ukraine president …
TRUMP THROWS HIS PAPERS IN THE AIR CLAIMS THE MEXICAN RAPISTS ARE HEADING HERE AND THAT MILLIONS OF ILLEGAL VOTES ARE BEING CAST, AS DERANGED POTUS TRASHES HIS CANNED NOTES FOR MEETING # TrumpIsDeranged # TrumpIs_A_LIAR # VOTE_GOP_OUT_11_06_2018
Many offers to you that you turn down
Owe, the biased Broward Politics who thinks Wasserman schultz is the bomb. What a joke.
'This is a tragedy': MSNBC's GOP analyst blasts Trump for sounding like 'a drunk guy in Queens' during tax speech …
More stupid.
@ realDonaldTrump Sir AS @ potus U have FAILED XTIANS COMMUNIST ATHEIST ANTI-CHRISTIAN China @ Chinamission2un @ PDChina CHINA Bans Online Bible Tightens Religious Controls Still POS @ JeffBezos @ Walmart IMPORT 88% from CHINA ITS GARBAGE FOR CHRISTIANS TO BUYhttps:// …
American politics is NOT the same with PH Politics. Here, we vote according to popularity, clan, family, DYNASTIES... in the US, Trump is NOT a politician so why do Americans need for that?
You would be surprised what the PC culture makes some people do.
Thank you for Making Art Great Again! Love it! Hoping to see another painting of trump titled “The Lying King”. lol
Unfortunately until trump is removed from office he will replace Pruitt with another yes man to do the same. # ImpeachTrumpNowhttps:// …
Will you disappear when he wins reelection?
Gooooooo Rasmussen.
All of the Above is missing.
It's easy, Right @ mitchellreports
Pompeo supports Enhanced Interrogation Techniques, which are NOT torture.. They keep our country
Mexico Caves to Trump, Begins Issuing VISAS to ‘Illegal Caravan’ – Truthfeed …
@ realDonaldTrump I told you that you need to see a doctor, and look, Mexico is offering to pay for it (even though it will cost more than the wall)! You are so Sad! # 45IsANutCAse Mexico Agrees to Pay for Trump’s Psychiatric Care …
America first mr. @ realDonaldTrump you keep saying it but your not doing it. Maybe it’s time to start.
Trump may ruin the economy with this stupid trade war before we can get rid of him. GOP do your job! …
I sure hope you get voted out... not very bright.. …
Montana Gov․ Steve Bullock refuses to deploy guardsmen to border on Trump’s Twitter ‘whim’ … via @ washtimes
We don't care. We'll rip your trade deal with us apart.
Time come federal intel and Congress never made FBI reveal 7700 encountered at border.another anti trump scheme.
@ aliasvaughn Trump knows he will be impeached. That is why he is starting the trade war, because it has to be the globalists.
No comment, bloomer.
Just call him Trump. Fuck giving him the respect of "President Trump."
False narrative!
18,251 Day's and counting Mr. # President $$$$$$$$$$$$$
Here is your wall Donnie boy, oh fence @ realDonaldTrump and the refugees are getting around everywhere!!!!
President Trump orders trade representatives to consider $100B in trade tariffs on China. US indices drop 1%
Of Mexico's 33 states, 26 are narco-states. Mexico receives proceeds from both narcotics and money laundering operations and the billions of money sent to Mexico from the illegals residing here. Activists stress that illegals pay taxes here but those taxes are really sent to Mex
Donald Trump raises Secret Service pay caps by signing new bill - USA TODAY...
@ realDonaldTrump Damn you and your attorneys are stupid. You said you did not know about the agreement with Stormy Daniels, so I guess there effectively IS NO agreement. Mike Avenatti has played you again.
Attention: Mr. President @ realDonaldTrump: # AmericaFirst RE: NATIONAL SECURITY THREAT Person of Interest
… We have nut job running this country
That was before Pruitt got exposed and all this heat. Even Fox News ragging on Pruitt, so Trump will end up ditching him. He'll have to find another yes man to replace Sessions
Trump, et al. will blame it on Obama or Hillary, and his supporters will believe it.
DeVos can't see BROWN
Trump is a monster. So he surrounds himself with monsters, anyone who doesn't fit are purged. They weren't monstrous enough. …
A: @ EPN Suspenda todo apoyo a la idiota "guerra a las drogas". Hay 26 millones de gringos pachecos que gastan 69 bill dls al año en drogas. Es el problema del lunático @ realDonaldTrump Puede llevar a la silla eléctricas a esos "drogos". No más soldados mexicanos sacrificados.
I respect your opinion. But, personally I can’t trust a person I don’t respect and I can’t respect a person I don’t trust. He’s lacking basic civility. I find him embarrassing. I just feel that we have lowered the bar so much that we will have an extremely hard time recovering.
They're all coming back trust me. Anything Trump does can be undone and it will. Everything you are doing is a slap in the face of the electorate that voted for Obama twice. We will get our revenge...
Trump’s Pruitt Test … via @ WSJOpinion
What’s your definition of good Trump?
Me gustaría una declaración igual de contundente como la que hoy Peña le dio a Trump, pero sobre # Ayotzinapa.
Fewer Tourists Are Coming to the U.S., and Experts Say It's Largely Trump's Fault …
Amazon shares dip following Trump’s reported desire to regulate it … via @ Politixlive
PRESIDENT TRUMP THERE ARE PEOPLE FROM OTHER COUNTRIES COMING TO AMERICA AND THEY ARE GETTING SOCIAL SECURITY WHEN THEY ARE NOT AMERICAN CITIZENS AND HAVE NOT PAID A DIME OF SOCIAL SECURITY TAXES-THIS IS A FACT-HOW IS THIS POSSIBLE?
@ realDonaldTrump , a lying piece of feces! ! …
Oh relax. It’ll last a month or two at most before a new trade agreement is formed. People were freaking out when Trump put pressure on North Korea too and look at how that worked out. This will be no different. Frankly, our trade deficit couldn’t get any worse.
Pregunta seria para los informados e informadores: ¿algún otro jefe de Estado del mundo libre le ha puesto un alto a Mr. Trump de la forma que lo hizo hoy @ EPN? @ JorgeGCastaneda @ CarlosMSada @ macariomx @ imatiasromero @ carlosbravoreg @ rivapa @ VerificadoMX @ MiguelCarbonell?
You won't forgive the occasional lie told by Obama. You forgive every petty ridiculous lie told by trump. # TypicalRepublicanHypocrisy
He cares so little about polls...he tweeted about an incredibly biased one filled with trumpernuts. My god conservatives are too stupid to see they have become a parody of themselves.
Our deficit is in trillions and you aren’t helping
"They are going to be a failing institution anyway." sounds like Trump hurt ego tweet. I promise to not rejoice if you get fired over your bad opinions, & I'll even fight for your right to have them. That's the most basic of conservative ideals. Shame more don't share them.
He really is trying to destroy this country..
Don't tell me you think that Trump is the first white supremacist president America has ever seen? Let me switch my meds to whatever you're taking if you believe that to be true. …
Sec. Perdue says there are “legitimate anxieties out there among soybean producers, pork producers” and other agriculture businesses regarding Pres. Trump’s proposed tariffs. He’s hopeful those tariffs will become less burdensome if U.S. & China work out new terms.
Maybe Republicans will finally turn on Trump when their stock portfolios suffer. # TradeWar # Tarriffs
Amazon could unleash a secret weapon to counter Trump's attacks over the US Postal Service (AMZN) …
Dem Darling Kamala Harris Attacks Trump’s Border Wall /James Woods Moves in With Kill Shot …
When WaPo stops calling @ JRubinBlogger a conservative, I’ll listen. Lots of anti-Trump conservatives have not gone full Kristol but she is the worst example of letting understandable personal animus toward DJT color any former principles.
If its that simple then you're really playing fast and loose calling anyone a dumbass pal. That's the kind of political insight taught to 6/7 year olds.
$ TVIX Trump wants $100billion more in China tarrifs. Futures already down -400
@ AriMelber did you say trump wants John Kelly out and put Pruitt chief of staff???
Stupidity, fear and greed describes Trump to a T. No wonder he thinks he rules the world. …
Trump niega saber sobre el pago de dinero a la estrella porno Stormy Daniels …
Trump dispuesto a cumplir orden de arresto a Maduro vía @ YouTube
...and Russia. She lost the election to Donald Trump and Russia.
What is Nunes’ goal? What does he expect to be rewarded by Trump?
with all the drugs coming across our border, we would be better off without their help.
Do you se now... why even your own Party view you as
Trump "maunfacturing" an issue is incidental to the real issue - border security.
No es la primera vez que pasa, Bush y Obama lo hicieron, pero fueron fuertemente criticados porque era muy costoso mantenerlos ahí y posteriormente los retiraron.
Currently higher than they ever were under Obama
Trump niega saber sobre el pago de dinero a la estrella porno Stormy Daniels …
Heidi - 6.9 million more did not want him in WH than did and many were "Not HRC" not Pro-Trump votes for him and are deserting him. DACA only applies to people who had multiple forms of proof they were in USA since 2007. They did not get handouts and contribute. Perhaps learn.
Trump's White House says military mission to eradicate ISIS in Syria 'coming to rapid end' …
Are you talk no to me? I didn’t want her in office. You are unhinged
Trump to Graham: “Who are YOU lecturing, dumbass?” …
¿Y ustedes qué harían?; Peña se suma a postura de candidatos ante Trump - … …
How stupid can you really be
Re: Just forwarded the tweet to # SEC and # finra. When will SEC investigate who is profiting from Trump's deliberate manipulations of stock prices from Amazon to tariff announcements?
Perfect
We have a child in office. A spoiled child with no impulse control.
Since when did you begin to think that trump is willing to help u gain more wealth? Don’t be stupid!he wants the trillion status and you below him.. he is white... don’t forget that...he never does!
Shake-Up: Trump May Be Contemplating Some More Administration Changes This Week …
Insider says Scott Pruitt is on his way out. On @ hardball Pruitt over ambitious living lavishly as the Son King. Revealed stepping stones to the presidency. A threat to Trump. …
Pruitt is everything Trump loves in an underlying, until he gets caught! …
Make an example out of someone, then things will change!
"Some" in all parts of the EU are not allowed to say how they feel as they will get arrested or get ostracized. They are trying to start that Bull here but Trump will end that as well. Pathetic.
President Donald Trump said on Thursday he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China, fueling an already heated trade dispute between the world's two biggest economies, "in light of China's unfair retaliation".
I Wish so many of you Trump Supporters would quit telling every one what moves Trump should or should not move. He's a master of 3D Chess. Just watch the game ... We're at War TRUST THE PLAN.

I don't stigmatize mental illness or any other medical condition- the brain is just another organ that can get sick. But we can't ignore the evidence that POTUS is delusional/dangerous & thinks he can invent his own reality and make others accept it as truth. We need to face it.
Cash their check right away for the wall.
Scott Pruitt thinks that the US is already an autocracy, and he can: - embezzle taxpayer funds - drive around with sirens when there's no emergency (also illegal) - push aside whistleblowers (also illegal) # TrumpTrain # ccot # tcot # tlot # 2a # maga? # Trump …
Trump revives his false campaign claim about Mexicans being rapists … # SmartNews
@ realDonaldTrump “trade wars are easy to win” …
Bad news Kate brown needs to face resign from Oregon and she voliated federal government code of conduct she deliberately violated federal laws of her impeachment on her behalf of her party and deliberately lied to her former supporters and private sector !!!!!
Mexico Agrees to Pay for Trump’s Psychiatric Care: April 5, 2018 Satire from The Borowitz Report…
The US's standing in the world has fallen drastically under Trump, and the world is indeed laughing at Trump. Those who believe different are delusional.
That is a demonstrable lie.
The only # rapist in this story is you @ realdonaldtrump. # Impeach # SexPredatorInChiefhttps:// …
Today I'm learning @ PlayHearthstone: Trump Basic Teachings - 06 - Card Advantage (Priest) via @ TrumpSC on @ Hearthpwn
Trump says 2,000-4,000 troops needed at border with Mexico … # TheFinal5 # 5at630 # fox5dc

Let’s talk about @ clairecmc private jet use. Can’t we? She should have been FIRED & would have IF SHE WERE A REPUB. # Pruitt Not Resigning
if it walks like a trade war. Smells like a trade war. Sounds like a trade war: then it is a trade war.
Wow, I've had this twitter account for years but hardly ever used it. I've certainly never been trolled before and now I see what folks have been talking about...the ad hominem trying to pose as discourse. It's no wonder Trump is here as his choice of misinformation platform...
# ThursdayThoughts # BlueWaveIsComing # BlueTsunami # BlueWave TRUMP IS SO BUSTED …
eureka is the trump girl
Well have the previous presidents done sod all to stop Noko from progressing their nuclear programme NO they all sat back and did nothing at least trump is doing something so be grateful that you have a president that actually truly loves his country
In order for this story to be fake, then Trump lied about imposing tariffs against China. You calling your boy Trump a liar?
Making life exceeding difficult for the masses, ruining our reputation around the world, extorting tax dollars and allowing a hostile gov't to commit an act of war w/o consequence which is why Russia is laughing. Do any of those reasons give you pause? Any of them?
Want a test to share with your friends explaining why Trump isn’t a leader? Easy, if Clinton had the Oval Office and did EVERYTHING Agent Orange is doing, his supporters would flip. TRUE leadership is respected even if not agreed with. They only like that he pisses off the left.
Trump's two BITCH ASS sons head to Dubai for business partner's wedding …
President Trump donates fourth-quarter salary to infrastructure projects …
Trump attacking Jeff Bezos is laughable. Trump so far out of his depth right now, it would be comical if it wasn't so serious. # WashingtonPost
Lmao The Vixen voted for Trump... just as I thought... trash
So the lawyer violated attorney client privilege by paying off someone @ realDonaldTrump had an affair with without discussing it with his client. Also used funds from the campaign or was to be repaid by the campaign. So why isn’t this lawyer being disbarred?!
Trump wants $100B in more tariffs on China amid trade row …
Yeah, well he still needs to pay for those plane rides he ok at the taxpayers expense.
@ realDonaldTrump love this quote - so true …
@ jimcramer can you stop encouraging trump's behavior?? He is obv trying to negatively impact Bezos. Why don't you make yourself useful and talk about the REAL WORLD. Are you hurting for viewers that much? You lost my trust after today. No Credibility
MEXICO SENATE CONDEMNS TRUMP USING NAT'L GUARD TO END THEIR AGGRESSION …
If you're trying to nail Trump, follow the receipts …
Trump seeks an additional $100 billion in tariffs against China in escalation of trade confrontation …
Buys Trump 1/2 day of TopStory relief from renewed (reasoned) speculation that Mueller is merely waiting for the final Mob Kingpin interview to be concluded w/T before designating Trump as co-conspirator in crimes of underlings. Or if T refuses to meet, charges come anyway.
Meanwhile Russia has ordered the US to cease military activities on the Korean peninsula, Kim Jong Un met w/Chinese (and Russian?) leaders in China. Russia, China & No. Korea are up to something.
i thought so at first but she did an anti-trump panel at dragcon
Amazing post, thanks
Donald Trump is an unlaw elected president they stolen the elections Hillary won the election but they can see a woman in as a president they have a machist culture she won but he was designed for the rich people of the USA for protect the interested of them
Very cool. Meantime Trump is trying to revive coal.
EPN a Trump ..se nota que ya te vas kikin
Cohen once said he would take a bullet for Trump. We are about to see if that's true.
Plots thicken! If Trump didn't know abt it means no agreement between he and Stormy. No NDA. Therefore she's free to speak. Guess Cohens $20M got toss out the window. IMO
Oregon gov. refuses Trump’s order to send National Guard to US-Mexico border … via @ amermilnews Arrest this bitch for obstruction of justice, dereliction of duty, or whatever the hell u can find!
You’re right, Geraldo, There’s no crisis, ... not now that Trump acted.!
@ realDonaldTrump Thank you for bringing our troops home (from Syria and hopefully other countries) and placing them on our southern border where they belong! Stand firm against the Dems and globalists as they try to destroy our country!!
Trump: Oakland Mayor Committed Obstruction of Justice by Warning About ICE Raids …
@ realDonaldTrump @ PotusaDJTRUMP this is Judy's big beautiful wall fence and
Check your facts before spouting at the mouth.... …
There just so happens to be a tRump hotel in Sunny Isles, FL. Coincidence?
Trump proposes more tariffs, sending the SPUs down 36 handles...
That’s true but for some in major cities mainly the south they have what is called food desert you can’t access quality foods and when you can it’s too expensive to buy. One of the shames of this nation!
Trump …
It's more than that. If Trump wanted to literally blow the entire IT industry right out of the water, all he would have to do is have the Justice Department investigate a bunch of them for Title 7 violations, i.e. discrimination against a nationality. Namely American.
I set out a factual detail tweet listing historic achievements by @ realDonaldTrump in first 15 months and you post a silly gif. Can’t imagine why # HillaryClinton lost Increase level of debate - if you can. If not troll your liberal vacuous friends.
I'll be the first to admit it hasn't always been pretty but one thing neither side can deny: Trump has people talking about politics (and how both parties are screwing America) more than any other time in modern history. That is a good thing, no matter what side you're on
You are an asshat
This sure feels like a little boy's temper tantrum.
It doesn't matter what you respond with, trump the chump doesn't read any or care what anyone says....
Still....triage is triage.....correcting grand jury sabotage/malfunction comes before (or duplicitously, at best) with lowering/eliminating Chinese Trade Deficits & I.P. Thefts...ENFORCE THE WARRANTED UPGRADES AT & , FIRST, THEN...
EUA enviará hasta cuatro mil miembros de Guardia Nacional a la frontera: Washington, 5 Abr .- El presidente estadunidense Donald Trump informó hoy que hasta cuatro mil elementos de la Guardia Nacional serán desplegados en la frontera con México, donde...

Donald Trump is deploying troops to the border. But border
Macy’s – 11 stores Michael Kors – 125 stores Payless – 800 stores Rue21 – 400 stores Sam’s Club – 63 stores Sears/Kmart – 103 stores Teavana – 379 stores Toys R Us – 735 stores Wet Seal - 17 # FAIL
Dem Darling Kamala Harris Attacks Trump’s Border Wall – James Woods Moves in With Kill Shot …
Don't tell Trump that China is kicking our butt in this crucial industry …
Don't do that to Saul!
FORMER SOS MADELINE ALBRIGHT Savaged on Twitter After Calling Trump "Most Anti-Democratic" POTUS in History … via @ 100percFEDUP
Yep! Finally we all are tired of TRUMP his name his tweets his lies his hair his criminals picks his dumb ass thoughts and the kissing of Putin ass, finally stealing/money laundering & not giving a f... about America !(thief) # Kick his ass Out
You’re probably right.
No!
Trump threatens China with $100 billion in new tariffs - CBS News. So much MAGA. With the growing trade war soon we won’t be able to afford to shop at Walmart or Dollar Tree. …
"La Cadet Bone Spurs."
Do you actually research things before you speak?
No they aren’t you liar!! # TrumpIsAMoron # TrumpIsAnImbecile #
Foreign Affairs Issue Launch: Letting Go: Trump, America, and the World # ForeignRelations
More ridiculous personal attacks on Jeff Bezos coming from Trump...
Does @ realDonaldTrump really think 80s factory jobs will come streaming back to the US?
Trump is pouting!
Why is it controversial when President Trump does it but not when Obama or Bush did the exact damn thing... Are y’all now turning into CNN
Trump: Oakland Mayor Guilty of 'Obstruction of Justice' | Breitbart …
Beto’s going to get elected. Blue Wave all over country. Republicans lose, Cruz and Trump both losers.
Playing poker with the market and it’s getting tense
I don't watch (He is who should not be named) on TV, but I'm addicted to my phone. I literally check every FIVE MINUTES to see if either Trump has taken us down or if Mueller has taken him down
DAMN STRAIGHT! Our schools DO NOT even teach OUR NATIONAL ANTHEM anymore, let alone morality, principles, the constitution, etc. Our futures of tomorrow ARE BEING RIPPED OFF. THANK YOU LIBERALS!—THE JUDAS SCARIOTS OF THE 21st CENTURY! # MAGA # Trump # LiberalismIsAMentalDisorder
Trump Jr. Caught Something About YouTube Shooting Aftermath Nobody Else Saw …
Agreeing with you so often is disorienting. I'm sure we still disagree on everything except Trump. We probably would not like each other if we met. But, on this, we agree.
Stupid alert again.
BREAKING: MUELLER REPORT ON TRUMP CONDUCT OUT SOON WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF CRIMES … # BitChute
Being President isn’t a ratings grab # Drumpf
I’m also constantly baffled that people seem to think the gross sexist Trump supporters are somehow not also anti-Semitic
Are these additional tariffs going to be on trumpstore merchandise???!!!
Trump’s main white nationalist twitter troll is a Middlebury grad in Manhattan … via @ HuffPostPol
@ realDonaldTrumpFAKE Rich Guy @ JeffBezosREAL Rich Guyhttps:// …
Chris they can’t win ..... you predicted dems pick up 10 in the house rep pick up 3 in senate......,,,your wrong trump supporter........guess you have no morals to support an animal like trump you jackass …
They wont be after midterms. He sure makes W look smart
In my opinion, Mr. Trump has the education of about an eighth grader.His name was in attendance at two colleges who have distanced themselves from his credit to them for his education.He attended in name to avoid Vietnam.He has a general lack of understanding of education period!
No more reason for a nda now that trumps admitted he had nothing to do with Stormy or the payoff guess she’s now able to speak freely wow the real housewives of christianity will have to skip Botox tomorrow to give another trump ordained by god interview
Herewith I ask @ realDonaldTrump @ POTUS To fund phage research !!!! @ FoxNews @ cnni @ washingtonpost
Maduro tilda a Macron de "pelele" de Trump y "sicario" de la oligarquía …
*statememt from the Trump Administration. There’s 0% chance that @ POTUS crafted that statement. …
DC politics. Sickening. Spending so much money without a single consideration how HARD # WeThePeople WORK our entire life for # Globalist F*cks. @ POTUS @ realDonaldTrump @ GenJohnKelly # WakeUpAmerica # DrainTheSwamp # DrainTheDeepStateSwamp # TheStory #
If it's on a Most Wanted poster, Oh Hell Yes!!
@ realDonaldTrump you LOST first place....loser. …
Creo q # Trump es libre de movilizar las tropas q quiera, no importa q sea la frontera mientras estén en territorio de USA esta bien
They will pay for it through taxes, tariffs, and partly in the negotiation of NAFTA. Whether they want to or not.
Good. We have enough noise from trump to deal with. Who needs more racket from the queen of nasal noise? …
Get ready for the historic lows. It’s gonna be hugh
Listen take a minute and loosen your weave it's affecting your brain. Let me guess that's a racist remark right? Triggered,you see the Roseanne show you know why it's popular cuz all those so-called Republicans are watching it take note
# trump means to say that # MichaelCohen WAS my attorney. Now hoping that Michael Cohen will throw trump under the bus. All these "fools" who think trump was ever on their side should see his true colors. # NotonmyTeam
Says Trump's cronies, besties and kidlets. The rest of us, however, will pay through the nose.
Trump calls out media when they lie. That's called exercising free speech. It's in the first amendment. Obama tapped the phones of the Associated Press. Obama also threatened a journalist with jail for not revealing his source; this went on for at least a year.
Dem Darling Kamala Harris Attacks Trump’s Border Wall – James Woods Moves in With Kill Shot …
Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA) laughs hysterically after joking about killing President Trump during an appearance on The Ellen Show. Sad. @ realDonaldTrump Lock her up for threats. …
It is trump tariff war. Tell it straight
Agree!
Lmao well i can’t be Eureka cuz she was at a Trump protest, wasn’t she?
La palabra clara es inferir. Si leiste el tweet al que respondí expliqué el pensamiento de Donald Trump el cual todos saben como es.
Right and wrong. At least partly right
El discurso de Peña Nieto a Trump fue bueno. PERO no se me olvida que la invitación y visita que acepto Trump del Presidente Peña lo hizo ver cómo un jefe de estado y opción viable para algunos estadounidenses.
If it’s not possible then I’m unsure I exist.
I was a drunk guy in Queens at the end of the bar for many years...never sounded like Trump.
Trump taking 'serious look' at policy options on Amazon
你永远都叫不醒一个装睡的人
President Trump Participates in a Roundtable Discussion on Tax Reform via @ YouTube
He was voted in because most Americans are woefully uneducated, and we had sucky choices.
Trump and his troll army declare war on &quot;caravan&quot; of migrants fleeing persecution - Southern Poverty Law Center …
Advierte Peña Nieto a Trump que nadie está por encima de la dignidad de México: “si está frustrado por cuestiones internas, diríjase a los estadunidenses, no a los mexicanos’, le dice. @ LaNapolesCdMx @ VertizNarvarte @ MixcoacDF @ eje_universidad
Trump desecha discurso, vuelve a arremeter contra migrantes …
Trump can lie as much as he wants until he's under oath.
Pruitt has always been extremelly corrupted.Since when he acted as Attorney General of his selfish corrupt ways have not only harmed Americans health,but also our pockets!Get out your thief! @ realDonaldTrump @ ScottPruittOK @ EPA @ EPAScottPruitt # bootpruitthttps:// …
Porn Star’s Lawyer Just Dropped A Truth Bomb On Trump After He Denied Knowledge Of Payment … via @ deepstatenation
Can’t wait to watch # JerseyShoreFamilyVacation to see which one is a Trump supporter now.
Trump is a counterpuncher.. so far the vast majority of the people he called out deserved it....TRUMP is just a man doing what he believes (along with 62 million Americans) is best for our country.. the progressives had 8 years and made things worse..IMO
Trump is your racist, drunk great uncle at Christmas.
What actions? Zero so far
Business Owner Looks Trump In The Eye And Drops A Nuke On Pelosi …
The leaders of Tomarrow. These two have morethen the Whole GOP. they stand uo to the NRA when TRUMP is aard
This one's for you, @ realDonaldTrump. May you rot in it. …
The constitutional crisis is on Bo and Bush. Pence would b up if anything happened to trump
@ realDonaldTrump I read every one of Obama’s E.Os & . I read these, but, forgot to go back & read the study results. This is important to Retweet for many to see, to realize this is study ordered by Obama & it should shut Dems up. One can only wish! …
Who is the “we”
Yep! And still with an overall.avg of 41.5% Actually down s8nce u tweetes last GOP, I mean Brietbart, dang it, Rasmussen poll. Means nothing idiot.
Aquaria is against trump openly and miz is jewish so iskkkk hisjjs
Bullshit
Proof please. I’m a small business owner and not one of my clients who work for both the private sector and the government have seen any increases. Besides, Trump himself said no one would until next year! So, now who’s lying?
He has only himself, ryan, and trump to blame. Ryan ,trump ,and McConnell -the new "Axis of Evil" .
Well the markets wanted Hilary. She wasn’t going to ruffle any feathers. There is way too much uncertainty w/ Trump. No one wants to work with him and I question his agenda. Nothing about his past makes me feel secure in his decision making process.
Why? Rhetorical question ...we know why... the DRUG CARTELS are in control of Mexico just like the SES & CIA controls USA ... @ realDonaldTrump SEND THE TROOPS! # EndSES # EvictUN # SecureBorder # MAGA # KAGhttps:// …
This statement was just Mr. Projection ‘s way of saying he’ll be hiring busloads of MAGAts to vote in many places.
Another one of Trumps idiot ideas. …
Mensaje del presidente @ EPN a su similar de # USA @ realDonaldTrump Lo llama frustrado y de retórica negativa. También le recuerda que no se le tiene miedo y que a # Mexico se le respeta! Cc @ el_pais @ AFPespanol @ elmundoes @ InfobaeAmerica @ agendaromano @ juanczuniga @
1.8 million @ realDonaldTrump offered , what have you?
In Trump era, Cubs manager Joe Maddon welcomes immigrants in his hometown …
Say NOTHING to any federal agent!! It’s a trap. You forget 1 thing it becomes an obstruction of justice charge. Mueller has zero on trump. Should post the daily cost of the investigation so the people can see what a colossal disaster it is.
Let us know when the good work starts. We’re all still waiting. This man is ruining America everyday, and all you lemmings will follow.
The Cyclist Who Was Fired for Flipping Off President Trump Is Suing Her Former Employer …
What is Trump doing to make America great again? by Edward Arnold …
Thanks Mr Freeman. Our country is big. We are people good too. But your president not .
Ayoo @ realDonaldTrump time to send @ TheNotoriousMMA back where he came from. Get on that please and thanks.
Trump seeks an additional $100 billion in tariffs against China in escalation of trade confrontation …
Or trump supporters
They voted for Donald Trump. Now soybean farmers could get slammed by the trade war he started. …
Quite a few of the most heavily impacted, were swing states that voted Trump into office. Will this change their view? The U.S. States Most Vulnerable to a Trade War … via @ Visualcap
Republican Blasts Team Trump for Watching Country Born # Topbuzzhttp:// …
is my president, thank you for taking action. But lookout for China and Putin joining military forces.
There there, shut up boy.
Attacks by @ POTUS are defamation of Amazon's character, with clear intent to cause financial harm. If I were the owner of Amazon, I would haul Trump's a$$ into court. On top of that, when he causes the market to lose points with tweets, he's stealing from all of our 401Ks. …
@ realDonaldTrump working on new book, "Art of the Moron." "Trump Urges $100 Billion in New China Tariffs, Stoking Tensions" Yo Trumpster, how about actually sitting at a table and making an actual deal? # WorstPresidentEver
Says the idiot wanted in Arizona for fraud.
Not everybody, I got 1,066 likes for my rant comment to Trump.
It cd happen if we get a Big Blue Wave in November. Then in Jan. after the new Congress is installed, if Mueller finds and reveals incriminating evidence on both Trump and Pence, we cd impeach both. President HC, here we come.
Peep Trump... I figured him out & how he dry snitches himself. Whenever Mueller closes in on something that he did, he says some nonsense he knows isn’t even true just so the media can latch on to his mindless nonsense.
Kills tRUmp’s chief selling point for the wall. Oh Mexico is our most equitable trading partner too. Fact challenged POTUS sad. You’d think RIS would have told him to bone up on facts. # MuellerTime …
@ CNN Your insistence to have despicable lying Trump sycophants and giving them credibility, when it's obvious they're paid propagandists is disturbing. When will you become a news outlet instead of a pathetic charade? # fourthestateiscomplicit # cnnisentertainment # truthdiesatcnn
What???????
Despues de que @ EPN recibió a @ realDonaldTrump en los pinos a estw wey see humillo y nos hizo quedar como agachones a todos.
IKR, Trump just handed him a victory. POTUS said in front of everyone that he was not a party to the contract Stormy signed. Dude's dumber than a box of bricks. …
Correcta la posición de Peña Nieto ante declaraciones de Trump: Anaya - … # Méxicopic
“You Don’t Attack a Kid”: Inside the Laura Ingraham Nightmare at Fox News - Vanity FairGUESSWORK WHO IS A BIG TRUMP SUPPORTER? Yup OWNER RUPERT MURDOCK …
EVERYTHING TRUMP SAID WAS EASY..IS DAM NEAR IMPOSSIBLE FOR HIM..HEALTH CARE AT A FRACTION OF THE PRICE AND BETTER.HUGELY WRONG...GIVING A HUGE TAX CUT TO THE RICHEST AMERICANS..AT EMERGENCY STIMULUS LEVELS..AND IS GONNA BANKRUPT AMERICA! NOT JUST A LIAR N CROOKED! BUT A FAILURE!
Que você prefere, ter a Donald Trump ou Kanye West como presidente? — Morrer …
Agreed. They're also trying to make Kasich look good for 2020 as a "moderate" GOP option against Mr. Trump. Not happening.
Wednesday born rock trump de333333 no way …
Why do you question it?
No, it's time to drop
The environmental protection agency shouldn’t be run by someone who has multiple conflicts of interest against the environment. You and your administration make me sick @ realDonaldTrump
Only 25% of the population is on Twitter so that’s less than who voted for Trump. In my experience there are a lot of Hillary and Trump supporters but that’s anecdotal. I feel like the OP about the true temp of the public.
When satire is Freudian... Mexico Agrees to Pay for Trump’s Psychiatric Care …
This all looks staged China and Trump are BSing everyone. The end result will involve North Korea
I thought this was a selfie of yours....
The Wall Street Journal Friday reported that President Trump’s longtime lawyer, Michael Cohen, arranged to pay a porn star $130,000 before the 2016 presidential election to buy her silence about a sexual encounter she had with Donald Trump. …
So I just watched a report about a viral video. You may have seen it. It shows Trump entering a daycare and one little child totally freaks out in terror. The mother is pissed as her daughter's privacy was violated after on an... …
Don't we still have a Loan?Trump threatens to slap $100 billion in additional tariffs on China … # SmartNews
@ JoeBiden you cant run for @ potus if your in prisonThe best you can hope for is that you can get a job in the alphabet bracelet shop at # Gitmo You helped destroy our country. Not happening @ realDonaldTrump # MAGA # MakeAmericaGreatAgain # Trump …
Does @ realDonaldTrump know how anything works in the government?
Just stop. You are like the party which shall not be named that wants to tell everyone else what to do/say. His Twitter page, his thoughts.
Google! # Google # Facebook # DeleteFacebook # TheGreatAwakening #
My autocorrect knows now that it’s “p”. It doesn’t even try to capitalize, he doesn’t deserve it!!
True
How many Trump Administrations are there? @ MrBoisyhttps:// …
Bebe – all remaining stores Bon-Ton Stores Inc. – 42 stores The Children’s Place – hundreds of stores Claire's – 92 stores Foot Locker – 110 stores Gap/Banana Republic – 200 stores Gymboree – 350 stores Hhgregg – all 220 stores J.C. Penney – 8 stores J. Crew – 20 stores (2)
Trump has to go, stop kissing his ass.
Another blow to small business from the fake potus Dolt45/ @ realDonaldTrump 100 billion more in tariffs which will be countered by China to the tune of 100 billion. Nobody loses but small business in this so called trade war. Getting harder to believe he's for the little guy.
Can you imagine being an historian trying to catalogue all the lies, hypocrisy & obfuscation? Between Trump, his family of criminals, GOP politicians & corrupt WH appointments, who could imagine a more stinking mess? It will take more than a generation to be rid of this stench. …
Congruencia es cuando haces lo que dices, el retrasado de tu presidente dice una cosa y por otra entrega el país a su patrón Donald Trump!!! Y sigue al pie de la letra la agenda del consejo de Washington!!!
@ realDonaldTrump you’ll like this one. …
Wow, what a master negotiator! Next He'll propose $100000000000000000000 in tariffs!
. @ realDonaldTrump God damn, liar. "Not a conspiracy theory, folks," President Donald Trump said in West Virginia on Thursday. "Millions and millions of people."
You do know China wants world domination? That occurs, which trump is trying to stop because they are stealing our enemies ntellecrusl property to build their military with then there will be more racism against blacks, dogs eaten, gays electrocuted, everything polluted etc
Judge Jeanne is desperate for attention from trump
As our country crumbles and goes bankrupt financially and morally
Yeah right, who would have ever imagined Trump being elected!
Most owners support trump. For the business aspect
He is such a dunce, Andrea.
I agree impeachment laws would be great. Impeach both R' and D' that do not uphold the laws of the U.S. (immigration). Now exactly what laws has Pres. Trump broken. Not theory, the actual laws.
New on Quartz: Trump just gave the kiss of death to Scott Pruitt: “He’s a good man”
What is or rather why would there be an impeachment vote? Based on what? Propesha for Pres hair? Doesn’t have a first family dog?What will Dems seek to impeach Pres Trump on- what grounds? This term loosely thrown around w/no backup. Anyone? thanks
. @ realDonaldTrump …
@ realDonaldTrump Figures you would endorse Pruitt! He’s as sleezy, criminal, and as evil as you are. Birds of a feather . . .
The nerve! # obama # BarackObama # trump
@ TimOBrien @ politico I read it’s former Trump advisor/wife beater,Rob Porter, whose ex-girlfriend worked for EPA. # grifters
Lol, there is no shortage of illegal aliens. Believe me.
Wow is he really that stupid that he believes Roseanne is a trump fan? That’s a whole different level.
That would be a magical moment.
YOUR AVARGE TYRRANT IN OFFICE YOUR FIREDMontana Gov․ Steve Bullock refuses to deploy guardsmen to border on Trump’s Twitter ‘whim’ … via @ washtimes
We have money for trump to travel and golf every weekend, expensive congressional travel/accommodations, a wall, a military parade but no money for education or health care.
DC/NYC Trip Day 5 - Tiffany's, Trump Tower, Gucci, and more
@ realDonaldTrump I'm 68 and have never voted Democratic in my life. Much more of this trade war and I'll help give you a Democratic Congress to deal with after the mid-terms.

Oh F this I'm moving to Tonga
President Trump Turned To The Cameras Announcing What CROOKED HILLARY Do... via @ YouTube
MEXICO SENATE CONDEMNS TRUMP USING NAT'L GUARD TO END THEIR AGGRESSION …
What did @ IvankaTrump do with the $100 million Saudia Arabia gave her to help women's causes? @ realDonaldTrump Whose account did this $ go to? @ EdKrassen @ krassenstein @ RepAdamSchiff Someone follow this money. …
Trump: Up to 4,000 National Guard members headed to U.S. border with Mexico … via @ realDennisLynch---loveit
This dude named Trump, has a bought degree.. Big man with little hands ... And feet!! He don't give a good ham sandwich about you nor me!!! I guess the word for today is "Oligarchs"...
Trump says he punches back? He’s going to fight with China? Mexico? He ran away from Emma Gonzales & David Hogg. I would pay to see that. # Trump # GunReformNow
@ realDonaldTrump you're just bent on destroying everything in America! You are the most disgusting thing on this earth!
Escalation it is! Trump always has to have last word and will claim to impose additional tariffs anytime China responds with its own tariff threats. Xi may realize this at some point & wait for real negotiations v twitter & press conference threats... or not. Hang on! # tradewarhttps:// …
“Trade wars are easy to win”...
Trump threatens China with $100 billion in new tariffs <— it’s hard to become unhinged when he’s never been hinged to begin with. Trash pile as president. He’s ruined the office, sure, but we are losing our entire place in the world. …
Trump should be institutionalized
You need to follow me Mr. Trump. I’ve been working with China factories for almost 40 years. I know the government, and the culture and how their factories do business. My wife was born and raised in Hong Kong. Please let me help you.
@ HillaryClinton literally lost to the dumbest man in human history. If # Trump didn't have money or power he would be wearing a helmet and droolingon himself
@ RealDonad_Trump Are you seeing what is going on in Oklahoma?!
"Knockaknock" (who's there?) "I'm @ realDonaldTrump and on this # MLK50 day that has something to do with # MLK - I mean I already talked about this, like a month ago? Anyway he did great things..." (remember the football players who peacefully # TakeAKnee ?) "THOSE SONS OF BITCHES!"
So... what is Fake about it? You just stated you're defiant... and China DID add more trade penalties. Looks like you are a LIAR!!!!
Trump will singlehandedly destroy the world economy to make the CrayServatives happy- yet ironically he will cost the homes and livelihood of the same people who voted for him. Those in rural states will listen to FoX news falsehoods and be like lambs-
Well, Trump acts like this is “his reality tv show”, BUT We know who’s taking this extremely seriously, the MuellerTeam! # MuellerIsComingForYou
@ realDonaldTrump …
President Trump: Justice Demands that # HillaryClinton Be Charged Crimina... via @ YouTube
@ HardballChris the theory about China’s leverage in escalating tariffs ignores one key fact-China does not have “elections” where they need to worry about being voted out like GOP does. China targeting “red” states will cause election problems for Trump.
Clinton was impeached for that. Why not Trump,?
Being the President and he probably knows more then a 3rd rate news network.., my money is on Trump.
The Administration Is Rushing to Turn Trump’s Latest Immigration Tweets Into a Real Policy …
More Obama jealousy plaguing the Trump family
Trump and his supporters refuse to think for once. Why NOT use a fraction of the 'wall money' to equip border patrol with sensors, cams, drones and boost security at ports? That's way more effective. Why waste billions on a wall that won't work? Trumpism is a twisted ideology.
Where does Trump get his info from?
@ realDonaldTrump …
Parroquias de Puebla listas para recibir caravana de migrantes que enfureció a Trump -
We will always survive without Mexico's help with anything!
If Pruitt is fired he has to go through a new confirmation hearing with the Senate to become AG, whereas if he stays on, Trump fires Sessions and moves Pruitt into that position he bypasses the confirmation hearing. At least I think that’s right. Please correct me if I’m wrong.
You have no redeeming qualities as a human being. Thank God every day your closer to spending eternity in he'll.
Lol wasn't trump bitching about the Mexico gov just letting people tru their country but now they have the best laws this man is insane …
I really just want to spray @ realDonaldTrump with windex and watch the orange run off of him
My uninformed opinion of the “Trump Campaign” is that it exists as a slush fund for Trump’s legal bills and to bribe potential Mueller witnesses with “jobs”, financed by MAGA suckers.
I’d rather pay more taxes than strap my grandkids future with the fast growing deficit trump is creating. The extra $60 a month which will expire is not worth it and trickle down does not work as proven back when Reagan did it and again when GWB did it.
May you live in interesting times. Trump is playing the Chinese with a Chinese curse.
Donald Trump has ruined the word sad for me. Sad!
does he really know what is he doing
Trump upped number to 1.8 million & GOP backed it vs Democrats request of only 600k & @ TheDemocrats refused!
Ông Trump nói không hề biết khoản tiền trả cho diễn viên khiêu dâm Daniels
@ hbo @ hulu @ KCBSKCALDesk @ UnivisionNews @ Telemundo @ NBCNewYork @ ABCWorldNews @ CBSEveningNews @ axios @ tpm FRANKENSTEIN trump storms the countryside RAVAGING the markets, destroying the FRAGILE financial future of MILLIONS, crashing GLOBAL markets. trump: "Markets BAD! China BAD!"
That 4 pillars deal, 1.8M DACA, end of lottery and chain migration with Kate's Wall along the border was the deal. Now since you all FAILED the American people and DACA, here we are today, protecting America! Obama did it. Clinton did it. Time to resign Nazi Pelosi!
Hah, and here they are trying to move post-Trump...
If you can't afford a lawyer, just SAY NOTHING.
Wrong the most brutal dictator in the world on now Trump closely followed by The Zionist dictator in Occupied Palestine
Thanks for making my put options great again Donnie! Let's do 1 trillion in tariffs next!
I know. I think any president we have from here on out will not seem as bad as Trump. Nixon being impeached doesn't seem so bad now that there's a new standard for "awfulness".
If I lose a single $ from my # 401K bc of you @ realDonaldTrump (accounting for inflation) I will sue the shite out of you # MoFu
You know who are experiencing horrible sexual assaults? The Rohingya but you won't hear Trump talk about that. …
Yeah, a lot of those policies began before Trump took office, but I'm happy there's progress!
Trump is a mobster thug who believes he is untouchable because he had always gotten away with his criminality. There is no way in hell that he isn’t letting his friends and family in on his market manipulations.
When did the Migrant Group make Demands? Trump is writing this chit himself isn't he lol. Oh nevermind his pet Stephen creepy Miller does it for him
@ realDonaldTrump Since you love social media so much and are slammed a lot by the companies, why not try uplive. It would give you direct access to the Chinese population, might help with the trade deficit!!
This didn't age well..
Trump định giữ Vệ binh Quốc gia tại biên giới tới khi có tường thành
Just when my stocks were starting to recover.... Damn..... # chill @ realDonaldTrump
I've yet to find any of the # Trump zealots try to explain why this is a good idea. I'm waiting. Don't have a lot time. I'm old.

Let's face it Stormy Daniels took the hush money before Trump was elected # POTUS. Who wants to be associated with a porn star ? Now # Trump is POTUS, she likes the camera and now it may even boost her movie sales. She has got to make a retirement fund some how.
Trump Was Supposed to Talk About Tax Cuts. We Got Rape, Immigrants, and Voter Fraud Instead.
Just too good not to share. The Point Donald Trump's illegal voters fantasy, part 281 April 5, 2018 | by Chris Cillizza and Saba Hamedy On Thursday in West Virginia, at an event to tout his tax cut law,... …
@ ErinBurnett Kudlow and Ross will cut and run from Trump because Trump thinks he is fighting a Trade War where he wins .No One Will Win!!!
Wow can we consider that to go for trump

Trump: Oakland Mayor Guilty of 'Obstruction of Justice' | Breitbart …
then FIX THE PROCESS in the System.... an earthquake can take down your wall, costing billions of waste. You can build a hotel not a wall!
Jesús Esquivel ( @ JJesusEsquivel), reporta la orden de Donald Trump de enviar a la Guardia Civil a la frontera con México, así como sus recientes tuits sobre la caravana migratoria que busca llegar al territorio estadounidense
Exodus of Trump staffers may quell interest in White House 'tell-alls' via @ nypost
The funny part is Trump flubbed on this early on, and he got quickly corrected for it. Also, just for amusement, it's fun to read him twist in the wind on the transcript …
BRING IT I AM TIRED OF BUYING THINGS MADE IN CHINA AND MEXICO.WE CAN'T EVEN MAKE OUR OWN CLOTHES PINS OR HAIR pins UGH
@ realdonaldtrump isn't helping our economy. He's going to cause another recession. # TradeWar # Deficit # TaxCuts # NaïveMAGAmoronshttps://
Trump a narcissistic egotistical racist bigoted rapist treasonous greedy lying cheating maniacal thief whose raping the the government by abuse of power, playing golf no idea why or what he’s doing.
Where do you get your information from that most Americans don't want him near the White House
Stormy’s Lawyer: Trump Comments Are ‘A Gift From The Heavens’
and who cares? Only those weak minded liberal demo-rats with Trump Derangement Syndrome.
Cramer: Trump's 'onslaught against Amazon' creates major market risk - CNBC …
No. Left people hated these men. Virulently. Some violently. Trump is hated more cuz he has zero pretence.
@ realDonaldTrump @ jaketapper @ TuckerCarlson @ davidaxelrod @ seanhannity @ ErinBurnett @ FLOTUS @ PressSechttps:// …
Trump needs to take care of productive people. Not PC dismiss to appease

She is one fluffy dog lol they sure are worth the money spend though,eh?
It's about how Trump won. Very interesting and objective. Scott Adams as smart and hilarious!
Trump's Most Influential White Nationalist Troll Is A Middlebury Grad Who Lives In Manhattan
Donald Trump says he has instructed US trade officials to consider $US100 billion in additional tariffs on China
I liked a @ YouTube video Trump Commands National Guard to Defend Our Border

Se prevé encuentro entre @ realDonaldTrump y @ AngelaMerkelMES. El caso del ex espía ruso Skripal podría estar sobre la mesa

Poll: Support for Trump’s immigration stance slips among supporters
Dow futures indicate more than 400 point drop at market open after Trump threatens more tariffs on China
Dow futures indicate more than 400 point drop at market open after Trump threatens more tariffs on China YAHOO!
Trump is ‘acting as an emissary for Israel’ …
Hannity talked smack about Fox colleague Shep Smith to Trump at Mar-a-Lago — and he 'ate it up' …
@ realDonaldTrump Stop it!!! You are going to really hurt us in the agriculture industry now. Not good!! Bad for business.
It’s Time For The Media to Start Calling Donald Trump What He Is: A Fucking Liar …
Trump conjures a new immigrant rape crisis - Washington Post
The bills haven't made the super bowl in years.
Mexican senators unanimously approve resolution to halt cooperation with US after Trump attacks:
Y do # trump # cultsupporters Not do a lil Research?? # trumpsupporters... Y'all Need 2 START READING INFO!! …
As border crossings rise, Trump vents frustration on illegal immigration
@ realDonaldTrump Ya just love to kill any good days in the stock market No need to blab about China tariffs
Trump on Amazon: The playing field has to be level for everybody (CNBC: Top News)
HUH?
Cramer: Trumps onslaught against Amazon creates major market risk (CNBC: Top News)
Propone Trump nuevos aranceles a China
Some people are idiots but it wouldn't be the first time that non-Trump supporters (often just hired workers) pretended to be obnoxious pro-Trump folks. Some get trained and paid to do that. Or they are dumb and do it for fun, to make onlookers assume Trump is an oaf.
This will not end well. President Donald Trump said on Thursday he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China, fueling an already heated trade dispute between the world's two biggest economies. …
Trump Is ‘Saving Us’: Minnesota Mining Country Warms to Tariffs and G.O.P.
In your fucking face, douchebag @ POTUS @ realDonaldTrump …
UPDATE 5-Trump taking serious look at policy options on Amazon (Reuters: Company News)
I love instant follow backs!! I’m in!! # MAGA # KAG
Qué dirá @ LVidegaray al respecto, cuando a ultranza defendió que Trump estuviera cerca de su mecenas... …
Hahahaha nice “hair don’t” Donnie. You know what they say about guys with big hair.... @ realDonaldTrump # smallhands.
Trump urges look at $100B more in tariffs agains... $ SPY $ FXI $ VOO $ SH $ SDS $ IVV $ SSO $ SPXU $ UPRO $ SPXL $ RSPhttp://
Ivanka Trump acompañará a su padre a la Cumbre de las Américas - Caracol Radio
Trump makes america great and mbs guarantees his throne
Is this really how one gets their political agenda to work
And filed in the 9th district which isn’t exactly the most Trump friendly district.
@ realDonaldTrump lo único que ha hecho es dar a conocer al mundo que somos importantes para Estados Unidos, ahí los resultados de la inestabilidad emocional de # trump …
. @ POTUS Robert Mueller War Hero, donald tRump: draft dodger. You decide, who loves America & who loves himself # Resist # FightFascismEveryDay
Is "cagey" a flattering quality, really? Hmmm
No one's attorney pays $130,000 hush money as a family friend. Does # Trump think we are all idiots? Also second big lie of the day - California does not have a multiple voting issue. Why does # Trump keep lying and why does the # GOP smile and nod like bobble heads? # BlueWave2018.
Trump to Dem Sen. Joe Manchin: 'You're Not Getting Help' | … via @ Newsmax
Liberal idi ot. 88% of the Chinese trade goes to this country do the math. It will be an easy victory blame it on the Chinese dipshit you know nothing about trade
Trump is an absolute incompetent & will ultimately destroy our economy which took years to rebuild after the last Republican created disaster.
... got it. Sometimes I’m just slow.
Watch: Educated Trump Fan Leaves Spoiled College Girl Literally Speechless …
Dems Release Tax Hike Plan This wk, Congressional Democrats released a detailed tax hike plan that they promised 2 implement if given majority control of the House & Senate after the 2018 midterm elections # RedWaveRising Be Smart-Vote Red @ realDonaldTrump …
…
Trump flips farmers the bird as their 'worst fears' come true …
In Trump era, Cubs manager welcomes immigrants in his hometown @ CNNhttps://
Donald Trump has a staff infection. Pass it on.
For well over a year the MSM has run Fake News stories of Russian collusion with Trump. They should be punished for their lies just as you were punished. Media can not be just a liberal propaganda mill.
Love! "Trump can no more brake this than those who opposed the Industrial Revolution could stop the Industrial Revolution,"
Liars all of them.
Who, CEOs?
US tour which has seen him meet President Donald Trump in the White House, hold talks with a string of the country's richest and most influential people and book the entire Four Seasons in Beverly Hills for himself and his entourage
Hate Groups Are Growing Under Trump The Southern Poverty Law Center's director of the Intelligence Project discusses a disturbing new trend. …
reading level—easy
"Can't STUMP TRUMP" The Great Awakening has begun!!!! …
Pocos huevos???? Que quieres entonces
That will only hurt all of us . We must come together to get control of Congress . Then get rid of Trump …
Future proves past # QAnon # Q @ realDonaldTrump …
@ realDonaldTrump you have driven this country to the ground, please resign.
Whataboutism 101. In this particular instance, there was an NDA and a large payment of hush money. Trump wanting to protect himself likely just got his lawyer disbarred.
Trump knows this from personal experience?
@ NancyPelosi @ realDonaldTrump should send in the Marines since by National State of Emergency he can do that to secure the border. $18-20 mm you have in offshore Deutsch Bks. Hubby can’t as easily get those low bids if not as many Illegal immigrants to contract out to make mo $$$ …
@ Mikepence @ ryan @ SenateMajLdr You are complicit in the mockery of democracy. Playing # TresonousTrump like Stromboli and JW Foulfellow. Complicit and abetting. Guilty
@ realDonaldTrump …
President Trump is protecting Dreamers,he is protect the American Dreamers of this Great go away Pelosi you had your chance to make a deal and you blew it.Let Mr.Trump show you how it's done.
@ realDonaldTrump since when do u care about migrants safety? You don’t, they’re not # white or # republican More baseless claims # MuellerIsComing # cantwait # eatshithttps:// …
Trump Calls Roseanne After Her 'Pro-Trump' Show's 'HUGE' Ratings …
So we shouldn't criticize our ancestors for defending Jim Crow, slavery, and imperialism? I gotcha. I suppose we should just excuse Donald Trump's sexual assaults while we're it at it too, since we have to "consider the context of the time," right?
Good stuff, but nothing enormous
MRS TRUMP DURING THE 1930S THE UNITED STATES HAD PUT AN EMBARGO ON JAPAN THEY WERE DESTROYING THERE ECONOMY; WHICH MADE THEM ATTACK IS YOUR FATHER TRYING TO DO THE SAME WITH CHINA?
Warning Highly Redacted; Poisoning of 2x or 3x Russian spy Sergei Skripal & Yulia without motive or evidence certainly carried out by; Boris Johnson's E.German Style Stasi Shadow Government who had capability opportunity double motive for Judge to collate covert Evidence!
Trump threatens China with $100bn more in tariffs as response to Beijing’s ‘unfair retaliation’ — RT Business News …
Ivanka Trump is suddenly in huge trouble in the Trump-Russia scandal … via @ PalmerReport
LOCK OBAMA UP @ jeffsessions @ realDonaldTrump @ POTUShttps:// …
Trump had better call Saul.
Idk,
Because he’s corrupt and is complicit in ruining our environment with his corporate oil and gas buddies. You’re vile & need to be voted out this November. America hates you Cruz. Let’s hope Texas does too.
COMPANIES CLOSING IN 2018 Abercrombie & Fitch - 60 stores Aerosoles – unknown American Apparel – 110 stores Ascena Retail Group (Ann Taylor, Loft, Dress Barn, Lane Bryant, Justice & several others) – at least 268 stores BCBG – 118 stores Best Buy Cell Phone – 250 stores (1)
Guessing the rich must be getting richer because nobody i know is seeing a bigger pay check
Breaking. Trump is a seller at every uptick . This is a president for whom the stock market matters and he is using every sign of market strength to escalate …
@ realDonaldTrump thinks that he is playing ball in New York with his Russian money. Different game here. We lose.
Sad to say, that's attitude that got us # Trump. Here, she's best shot to win. # Resist
0 the people there can do it,fix the corruption
...suprising since Donald Trump is the one talking.
The phrase "play your Trump card" - does it mean to declare bankruptcy and then brag about how much money you have?
You sound like you might be proving my point about angry white guys. Deep breaths, Mort.
Our governor also did this for the guard redeployment to Iraq in 2009. Obviously Obama sent them anyways. As Trump will do if he wants to. …
… Think about all those drugs .... do you have children?
I Follow Back ALL Trump Supporters. # MAGA . ----> Thanks TIC TOC @
Arm the National Guard
Love Donald
Such a great picture of the Trumps!! …
Of wow funny . Wonder why you feel sorry for Comrade Putin # putinrocks
Guess that’s the trump MO. Every cabinet member is killing his agency. Tillerson/State Dept; DeVoss/Schools; Pruitt/EPA, Trump/the whole country. I can’t think of a single cabinet department that is doing well.
Don't worry only Donald Trump and Fox News believe that....
Another Trump stab at the red heartland of America!
That’s an excellent point. But what alternative solution are you offering?
P.s. you lost 3 seats Tuesday.
Audio just surfaced of Trump Jr. bragging about his and Trump’s penis sizes - …
who is that character in Popeye who always says: "I'll gladly pay you on Tuesday for a hamburger today"? That is the same tailor who makes Trump's suits, I heard this on good authority......
We got confirmed Trump voters hosting discussions on the impact of Mass Incarceration in case anyone is wondering how my time in St Louis is going
This alone causes concern about Trump’s stability. More than the deal - his inability to think about the physical money trail. Any government agency with jurisdiction over campaign finance, or any private person with a contract dispute over this deal, can compel the money trail.
Reviewing Republican AHCA remember it was horrid. It wasn't worth anything as health insurance. After a stay in a hospital, those on a budget would have been shocked. Trump cares about only for himself. Watch that nothing happens to Veterans of America. …
He wants to break china like Reagan broke Russia it’s that simple God bless him I love him @ realDonaldTrump
Obama? Why not throw Hilary and FEMA camps in...just in case you missed a few trigger words for your mouthbreather followers.
Trump to remove ‘climate change’ as a national security threat … via @ Politixlive
He's not my
@ realDonaldTrump So,you are going to take away money from our wonderful military to build your wall. Brilliant. Every single general should slam you for doing this. Don't make promises you can't keep creep.
"Mexican Drug Cartels Threatens to Stop Helping U.S. Against Drug Cartels If Trump Deploys Troops to Border". There, fixed. Mexican politicians are just another branch of the drug cartels.
Trump hands Putin xD LOL ! # Topbuzzhttp:// …
Are you on drugs?
come on out to Oakland and let's discuss it ... chicken shit @ realDonaldTrump …
@ realDonaldTrump # CheetoDick # cheetodick # cheetodick # cheetodick @ POTUS # cheetodick # cheetodick # cheetodick
I didn't call you any names, nor do I have any desire for that. I said your argument is ridiculous, and I stand by that. I also never said that the border shouldn't be defended, but I don't believe that the situation warrants over reacting to a bunch of civilians.
Oh the Democrats will bury that story!! Maryland didn’t happen and neither did Texas.. why? Because they ended with good guys who had guns and saved lives. It just doesn’t fit the anti gun narrative. What’s great is that if President Trump didn’t like they then the Dems would.
No troops are going to support your idiot game. Oh, your a draft dodger too. Daddy got you out. Trump, you are a piece of shit. Please die in your sleep tonight
Future of the Middle East: 2019- Trump & Saudi Arabia partner to get Iran, Turkey & Pakistan in line 2020- SA funds the reconstruction of Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq & Lybia 2021- Trump & SA create a functional gov in ME 2022- SA calls for all Muslims to 'Come Back Home' # MAGA
Pentagon Says No Syria Pullout Timeline; "Exasperated" and "Frustrated" Trump Concedes # Investing
A sociopath. He gets an adrenaline rush speaking about violence. You can hear it in his voice. tRUmp quote: Lethal injection is too comfortable.
@ S_Cienfuegos_Z @ SEDENAmx algo se hablaba de la autonomía de defensa nacional en caso de emergencia en sus nuevas legislaciones... no solo se les invita a aplicar el plan # DN-3 ... a q no se paran en la frontera con la guardia nacional del sr # trump
…
I'm Ted Cruz, approximately human Vote for me or Donald will be fumin'
Trump is the best thing that’s happened to American politics since ... ever. He loves America and our freedoms. I don’t always agree with him but I’m at how much corruption & sludge is in the DC swamp that he’s exposing.
Yes it's both parties, it is the politicians. Politicians have never even had a real job, they have never been in the private sector. They are so disconnected. It's exactly why Americans voted for Trump. He is for the people and understands the people, understands business.
Trump, whatever you do with Amazon, China etc etc will cause record stock market CRASH. PLS PLS PLS consult with your advisers, whatever you do is WRONG for US, for investors, for all ordinary people. Use to be your supporter, I've had enough!!!
What a piece of work. A card carrying swamp rat blinded by his allegiance to the ruling class. Trump has flaws? Duh. But he is MAGA.
It’s not a trade war! *narrator VO* it is
what a racist person you are. zyou should move out if your happy ... don't come to Canada must of us had it with ppl like you. Go to the UK or Mexico. Bye Bye
en Usa hay peor corrupcion q en MX , si destapan algo turbio es porq quieren esconder algo peor, o tambien como te sentirias con una hija de EPN en la misma situacion de la nada estudiada y ahora poderosa Ivanka Trump?
# Elecciones2018: @ Mzavalagc envió una carta a @ realDonaldTrump y esto fue lo que le pidió.
Sally Yates Says While ‘Elections Have Consequences,’ Trump Goes Too Far
Another idiot leader leading your children over a cliff. Defending herself by stating one false fact with another false fact. 3% increase. … @ repdodiehorton Jesus is not our leader and you love an antichrist in @ realDonaldTrump Say no to stupid pills. …
Dow futures indicate more than 400 point drop at market open after Trump threatens more tariffs on China …
. @ realDonaldTrump …
I understand that. However, that didn't involve the repeal of a constitutional amendment.
WRONG. Its time for Trump to SHUT DOWN this illegal company! # MAGA
Frente a amenazas de Trump: UNIDAD Y DIGNIDAD. La moderación y sumisión no nos ha llevado a nada. Tenemos que poner orden en casa y reconstruir nuestra posición frente al mundo. Reconozco el llamado de # UnidadNacional del Presidente @ EPN

You’re welcome. As the just security piece explains replacing Sessions to fire Mueller isn’t easy because Trumps motive will be so obvious
Tomorrow: Trump caught on tape, email, video, telegram, sky writing, smoke signals, voicemail, tin can and string, paper, strippergram, telling Cohen to pay Stormy $130,000. Fake news? Says who?
Being a good conservative doesn't necessarily make you a competent EPA administrator.
Oops...read that as snorting.
A caravan making its way through Mexico to get to the US border is a political statement that cannot be ignored. And, now, neither can the response. He did the right thing. @ realDonaldTrump is rocking it. This voter approves. # MAGA
He rarely gets 100k and he has 50MIL followers , millions only if we could click “dislike” .. maybe @ Twitter can add the dislike option?
# Trump is such a # Dumbfuckhttp:// …
WRONG! …
We do have to get this straightened out.Cannot continue to be forced to outsource manufacturing to China,leaving our own manufacturers uncompetitive, because of lopsided trade tariffs.Very unfair to us.Proud of President Trump 4 addressing this appropriately.China acting spoiled.
El comercio de Trump mueve a los votantes republicanos en la América rural …
Sad. Wasn’t the Democrats that we’re horrid to Trump if he wouldn’t accept election results. When they go low we go lower. Lol
Mexico does NOT tell us what to do! The United States of America is the most powerful Nation on earth. We do NOT take direction from Mexico, a Country that cannot even hold their own people. # AmericaFirst
Why do you constantly lie? # ImpeachTrumpNow
Trump Doubles Down on Potential Trade War With China
If you're jealous then stop being a victim, take personal responsibility for your life, and work harder so you can be wealthy like me. By the way, I have co-workers that aren't rich that are getting a cut of over $20,000.
Ruby, very prescient tweet. My hope is that Trump has awoken America's sleeping better side, and reason and values will reclaim our country.
El comercio de Trump mueve a los votantes republicanos en la América rural …
He's the liar-in-chief
Oh my you poor dear. Try a little harder how about?
@ realDonaldTrump …
Pruitt thinks he's more important than Trump. Yo @ RealDonaldTrump. What say you? …
Why don’t you tell us about that. We haven’t seen Trumps tax forms n I’m sure he’s not going to give them up. Because he’s full of shit about his actual wealth. He’s made some his money by not paying his workers. He values nothing but himself. Be real …
@ realDonaldTrump better stop this bullshit news thats tanking the market and upsetting investors, we all know whats going on here and americans are not happy with this bullshit you're pulling all the time
I think Mr Trump found a deep spiritual reason knowing that only someone like him, in his position would and could do this. We have to continue to pray for the POTUS. …
What’s truly sick is that these tariffs will disproportionately and overwhelmingly affect Trump’s own base but he doesn’t care and the base will still cling to him. China ought to cut off the shipment of MAGA hats- that might actually get them somewhere. …

RT to @ ICEgov @ realDonaldTrump …
You spent 20 years hiding from the stories of rape and abuse by Bill Clinton. Now you act like a consenual affair is news worthy. Your hypocracy. Is showing yet again. Sorry as much as you liberal liars want this to be a story it just is not.
@ Tumderest Thanks! I also proudly stand with them. Obamas were a real “first family” and made America proud!Trump’s nothing more than a pathetic joke made worse as he truly thinks he’s the real deal. Even his so called “friends” laugh at him! That’s why he plays to deplorables! …
Much agreed.. (see below)
Maybe he'll take you with him Comrade. # TrumpRussia # Treason #
@ realDonaldTrump Did you see this?
You were elected to defend the constitution. Shut up about the press! # DerelictionofDuty
The Memo: Kelly said to be losing influence with Trump …
What generals specifically?
Is it just me or is the second happiest set of pictures of trump ever. His happiest were with Putin. And do these guys act like they don’t know each other.
So you could make yet another unhinged, unintelligible, word soup of a speech? Your incompetence is showing.
@ SecretService @ FBI @ realDonaldTrump I bet you that if it was to Barry H she would've been in jail. Please do your jobs guys. …
Morgan Freeman pide disculpas a México por Trump …
“Trump is the interruption to a global agenda; no one expected him to succeed” Lance Wallnau
No, typically bad presidenting.
We don’t need walls... we need soccer # uswnt # USAvMEX @ jorgeramosnews @ realDonaldTrump
I would feed and house them. And I would not be quartering them in my home.
Que você prefere, ter a Donald Trump ou Kanye West como presidente? — Alguem realmente preferiria alguém perturbado como o Kanye West? …
Dearest Martha, Again outflanked by the Chinese I believe the field is lost. Sell the farm and marry another. Yours, General D.J. Trump (retired bone spurs)
(Trump urges look at $100B more in tariffs against China; futures decline - China Fund (NYSE:CHN)) - - President Trump has instructed the U.S. trade representative to look at $100B more in tariffs against China, sending equity futures... - …
I’m redneck Tommy. I’m Pro Trump .. Pro Guns... Pro Anything That Ain’t Got Nancy Pelosi.. Hillary Clinton or no eye-legal.
YOU TOO President Trump, You too will be held accountable for the charges of assault multiple women have accused you of - and the sexual and physical assault perpetrated by those close to you.
@ realDonaldTrump Donnie, have you been out again? … via @ NBCNews
Poor Kansas has been dealing with the fallacy for years, courtesy of Kobach, who made a fortune from a lie. FACT CHECK: Trump Repeats Voter Fraud Claim About California
Open for discussions. Honey he derailed those discussions when he refused to sign several bipartisan bills.
Sure thing - 25B- end visa bs- end chain migration. Then we have a deal
the difference between Mexico and NK is..about 100 million ppl who despite all the adversities move and think freely we might have a horrendous gov who plays stupid when dealing with crime and criminals but we are free ppl don't overplay your hand Mr @ realDonaldTrump
Trump is going to get rid of Sessions and appoint Pruitt during a Congressional recess. The fact that Pruitt has already been confirmed by the Senate means he can take over as Mueller's boss and bury everything. Sessions cannot be forced out. The rubles lead to the truth.
# Republicans GOP had a chance to straighten the mess they and tRump created! Now it time for the # BlueWave2018 to take over & really clean the swamp that did now exist but was brought in & also turned GOP into by tRump! …
Trump will lie under oath and be charged with perjury, then Cohen is disbarred. Sending National Guard troops to US/Mexico border is his way of trying to distract from Mueller investigation, Stormy et al, corrupt administration&trade war. Welcome to the Titanic.

And hey, @ realDonaldTrump would never lie, would he? …
MSNBC Cuts Off Trump In Mid-Rant After Less Than 2 Minutes …
…
Trump Reminds West Virginia What Bill And Hillary Think Of 'Coal People' - Crowd Goes Fracking Nuts …
You're a pathetic fraud and
Trump says he wants to send 2,000 to 4,000 National Guard members to US-Mexico border # FoxNews
VOTE Incumbent Conservative Republican Rep @ MimiWalters for Congress # CA45, California Primary June 5 2018. Follow-Volunteer-Donate HERE # MimiWalters # Walters4Congress # Walters2018 @ CAGOP @ GOP @ FreedomCaucus @ realDonaldTrump @ VP # MAGA # TrumpTrain #
It's where trump trys to send his usedup paramours. A black whole.
So, you’re saying that China is NOT imposing trade restrictions and penalties against U.S. goods?? Hmmmm - guess we listen to different news outlets. OH - that’s right! You get all of YOUR news from Sean Hannity and FOX News. # TrumpIsTheRealFake
@ TheJusticeDept @ jeffsessions .. What is being done to stop this sensorship of Conservatives??? @ POTUS @ realDonaldTrump …
Pentagon Announces Border Security Cell to Implement Trump's National Guard Plan …
You think Trump has the highest approval rating in history?? LMAO simple google search easily proves you wrong …
Mike Myers revives 'Dr. Evil' to poke fun at Trump's Cabinet …
You are safe They are terrified You elected us To keep you safe We will not fail Where we go one, we go all -Q # QAnon # MAGA # GreatAwakening # Deplorables # WeThePeople # Trump
Trump wants to make China pay 100B TARIFFS, HE TALKS ABOUT CHINA and he thinks China is Iraq or Afghanistan or Somalia does not this Man know that America OWE china Trillions of dollars and if China gets MAD will make America history with Economy please let someone Tell Trump
Breaking Update.... Hispanic Man Attacked By His Father For Supporting Trump via @ YouTube

Not here so much but thanks anyway Donald. I know you want to believe your helping every single American but it’s not the case. You have made me miss George Bush though so thanks for that as well. You suck
Too bad it's used on mark-up prices for basic needs & you have to pick & choose. Do you want to eat, have a roof over your head, or pay for a doctor or dental visit.God forbid if you need surgery. Look at it this way you won't see it because you don't have no vision ins either
Can’t he be pardoned by Trump and therefore not lose anything?
Right before trump denied fucking a porn star he pushed the conspiracy that millions and millions of people voted illegally and something about immigrants coming to rape our women.
Cohen met with trump Friday night at Mar-A-Largo. Cohen takes the fall, gets disbarred and trump takes care of him!!! Except !!!! Mueller is going to invite him to visit his grand jury where he’s screwed This was a trap and they fell for it!! Millions for both of them …
Trump threatens to slap $100 billion in additional tariffs on China. … Oops! There goes Trump again threatening the Chinese so the Dow/Market goes down and he and his family can purchase affected stocks. They buy low and sell high!
Wonder why? What does he know. Don't know but it's worth $500,000.00. I retired on $871.00 month which just ended after 7 years and this crook gets all he needs. Why did we vote for Trump.. MCCABES OF DC
Great thing abt our Country, freedom of speech & Democracy allow for differing opinions, but BS is BS. Trump is selling his kool-aid (again). ‘Probably heard abt that’ — No, & he has no verifiable supporting data. He invents alt-facts, & his claims are ‘Trumped Up’ nonsense.
I liked a @ YouTube video Sorry CNN, Majority Of Americans Agree With Trump
Ex-CIA officer Phil Mudd lights up Trump for being the 'liar-in-chief' on voter conspiracy theory …
Trump turned the swamp into a cesspool. It is like they don't realize it is OUR money they are spending.
When? He started this fiasco in May 2017. He stated that President Trump is not a criminal target. Ho hum is the right phrase about now.
All I did was accurately describe the American political system. People vote & those elected represent. If more Democrats are elected, they are the majority power. Democratically elected by the people. I'm not sure why this confuses you. Do u associate Democracy with "Democrat"?
California Crops Rot as Trump's Immigration Crackdown Creates Farmworker Shortage …
Apparently someone forgot to tell the Chinese that they were not supposed to respond to Trump's tariffs. Well, this'll teach 'em!!!
With all the seriousness of a report about corrution, @ CNN frets @ realDonaldTrump playing to his base via policy # TTThttp://
@ realDonaldTrump Defending His Blatantly Corrupt EPA Head Scott Pruitt Amid Scandal via @ HumanistReport
How about you be a better parent?
$ GE just fuck you trump
Trump does not care about real farmers (except maybe for a photo shoot), not real people. He likes the huge corp farms. The ones that lobby for whatever they want. I guess no photo shoot either. Trump is terrified by all animals. But we grow soy you say. Bet you have a dog.
1000 point Dow drop tomorrow?
Keep dreaming.
Criminal. Treasonous. Republicans enable this because all Republicans are traitors. Trump is just a symptom of Republican Party corruption. He represents GOP perfectly: the most corrupt party in USA history. …
Unrelated but totally related: I honestly take offense at posts dedicated to defaming Maggie Haberman. It’s just bullshit. Very few journalists have been able to glean such an intimate look into the workings of the Trump WH or of Trump himself. Haberman is the free press.
Attention Mr. President @ realDonaldTrump: # AmericaFirst RE: NATIONAL SECURITY THREAT Person of Interest
Trump - Huge cuts to Social Security and Medicaid …
Evil takes care of it's own
Two reasons: Delusions of grandeur or paranoid delusions. Either way, a delusional appointment by the number of delusion @ realDonaldTrump.
Compromised, corrupt # TrumpCrimeSyndicate stumbles along in Dysfunctional Organizational Culture. # Trump is NO Commander-In-Chief. . @ SpeakerRyan @ SenateMajLdr @ GOPHouse # GOPSenate @ TGowdySC @ RepGoodlatte @ ConawayTX11 @ ChuckGrassley @ SenatorBurr @ LindseyGrahamSC abdicate OATHS!
Many Californians have told me they‘ve witnessed illegals who voted. Those who have reported say California will not take action on their reports.
@ realDonaldTrump Ask your Corporate buddies how long they would have a "Pruitt" in their Company. Ive seen them but their shelf life is real short
Hye hey, check out and share as much as you want this data flow modeling of the crooked Hillary Trump Dossier ... yes Brennan and the 5 Eyes were the originators that ate up and then distributed the Hillary fed documents ...
Quietly, Trump Officials and California Seek a Deal on Car Emissions …
Up and down, up and down, stability not exactly something Trump likes. Hard on the rest of us. …
I think the FAKE NEWS media has selective amnesia & so does @ nbcsnl The must not research their archives before launching a tirade against @ realDonaldTrump. Apparently SNL forgot about the Donald Trimp Monologue - SNL …
# Trump is still 'protecting' # EPA head # ScottPruitt because he wants him to replace # JeffSessionshttps:// …
I’m just sayin thought the “shoutout” was for “Patriots” meaning ...Trump Train info and politics. Guess I was wrong ??? Cuz it’s been deleted. oh well, they can call me whatever they want.
Ah chingá, que se la pele el Trump para entenderle.
Complete disappointment - WV needs to vote him out
Donald Trump Jr stated that considering his impending divorce he plans on having a great time and meeting beautiful women! # DrunkPhotoBlowingCamel
Deep State John Brennan Lashes Out at Trump as Investigators Zero In On His Shady Past …
Donald Trump’s rapidly worsening cognitive failure is out of control … via @ PalmerReport
2) However, If the wealthy have incentives and reason to invest in America, they will invest in the American worker. Which money will trickle down to the American worker. Then the American worker will reinvest in America. Thus causing the cycle to continue.
I can tolerate conservatives, but not far right populist idealogues. I won't tolerate Trumpsters, nor am I ashamed of that. Tolerance has its limits and Trump and his disgusting supporters have exceeded those limits for many.
Trump's next shot in China trade war …
@ realDonaldTrump On course to bankrupt America? @ GOP # ANYDUMBER conservatives reel your boy in as he is out of control! …
President Trump is a seriously deranged human being. Has anyone ever seen an honest good hearted laugh from this man? If you can’t see an unbalanced dangerous mind you’re not looking.
It feels like insanity . . .
Of course the first half of the clip reminds us how oblivious Trump is to anything of substance. He is utterly clueless.
asia with this trump voter T
... or more like President Putin game plan and likes chaos Etc
She cashed the check and his attorney had power of attorney from him. Plus Trump supporters don’t care at all about this
# EPN # DONOTISMYPRESIDENT # OUTSIDERATSOFTHEMEXICANGOVERNMENT foxito # EATEGGFROMPRI
LOL You can believe whatever you want, Vlad. I will keep on keeping
Smug Tug must live under a rock. Trump approval rating now at 51%. More than Barry Obama's was at this rate in presidency. You might NEED a burner account, you are embarrassing yourself!
He has gotten rid of the absurd regulations imposed by the out of control prior dept. Some of his expenses are outrageous and that needs to be reined in, but some them are less than former administration. All actions hv reactions and past laws cost ppl jobs and hurt the economy
Por un lado recrimina a @ realDonaldTrump y por otro se echa a los brazos de @ jaredkushnerhttps:// …
And get billions more out of it than they pay into it.
…
Peña Nieto no es mexicano, es un traidor infrahumano. Todo esto se pudo prevenir si hubiera actuado con dignidad, antes. Ahora sale a manipular a las masas, porque ya vio que Trump sí está loco. Pero entonces, por qué lo apoyó al principió. Por qué le siguió el juego hasta ahora.
This tweet made my day!

Trump administration's lawsuit against California sanctuary laws backed by these cities, counties …
Jared Kushner 'admitted Donald Trump lies to his base because he thinks they're stupid' … via @ YahooNews
Additionally, I am generally in favor of regulation, and am not aware of specific individual rights that are being destroyed.
Great to see President Trump campaign for our members running for office. We need more seats in both houses of Congress to keep improving the governments operation. Republicans are making America great again. More Republicans, the greater America becomes.
Pft. Trump won’t like that it was less than Obama.
Boy, markets looked great up until that moment Trump decided to talk tough on China. Aftermarket ran like hell - on everything.
Folks in the @ realDonaldTrump @ WhiteHouse are dishonest to an incomprehensible level... …
Everything Trump does, the media flies into an outrage how disastrous the results will be. Then it turns out great, and the media conveniently forgets about it. ALWAYS.
I am with you. Could barely close my eyes last night. Patience. # qanon
Wrong
Going off script, Trump bashes immigration at tax cut event Tossing his "boring" prepared remarks into the air, President Donald Trump on Thursday unleashed a fierce denunciation of the nation's immigration policies, calling for tougher border security…
No tariffs! No tariffs! You’re the tariff!!!
Anybody seen what the value of the dollar has been since this orangutan took office? Not that we are complaining, we’ve made in the six figures on our USD short position...
Oregon gov. refuses Trump's order to send National Guard to US-Mexico border | American Military News …
Trump intensifica tensión con China y propone aranceles adicionales por US$100.000 millones - PULSO … vía @ pulso_tw
I disagree, why would you want a leader who would be so out of touch with the reality of what normal people feel and do? Wouldn't you rather have somebody leading who has maybe made some of the same mistakes you have? And who can identify with your circumstances or situation?
100tc señora. De cartas no vive Trump.
For Americans. You are blinded with hate.
Mr Trump, "If you want to reach deals, we’re here. But if your statements are the result of frustration over your domestic politics, laws or Congress, address them, don't take it out on MEX”

@ BobSMueller I think you should investigate Trump and his family’s financial dealings. Do member’s of his family “go long” or “short” based upon knowing in advance; what he is going to “tweet” next? Can’t think of another reason for the madness.
@ DLoesch does a whole bunch of mirror-imaging, just like Trump. There are different levels of narcissism, but they have many of the same traits. One similarity I have noticed is that it doesn't matter how beautiful they appear outside (not Trump), they are severely ugly people.
Absolutely, Trump is Putin's puppet.
Pruitt is the best EPA man ever. Trump should keep him.
the lies...the deceit, all intentionally malicious and seeking to divide this nation instead of unite her. he was THE WORST turd ever to disgrace our nations capital. he used his race to FOOL THE NATION who only wanted blacks to feel WE CARE. WHAT A NIGHTMARE! NEVER AGAIN!
Who are you repeating Trump is the worst president we ever had. Apparently have an educated yourself enough to know exactly what he's done for this country. Just shut your mouth and go away
Trump just threw Cohen under the bus. Will Cohen’s loyalty survive loss of his law license or will he figure out that protecting Trump is a losing hand? …
Comrade Nunes is getting voted out since Russian Ryan is scarrd to censure him because hes Trumps lap dog

Markets are tanking as KING-Trump the know-it-all responds to China filing protest with WTO against U.S. tariffs by instructing his Trade Rep to consider 100 billion more on top of the 50 billion he's already ordered. This sure feels like a trade wa
The republicans got 50 yrs worth of material to use against @ BernieSanders that will finally end his political career! Also, no coincident Bernie's campaign was stealing files fr/DNC's server about the same time Russia was hacking it to help Trump steal the election from Hillary.
Remember when he made fun of your wife? She will resent you forever
Stock market goes way up as well because of him! Those crumbs that dumbazz Pelosi calls them helps put food on the table! Where’s this trade war? Explain yourself! Slick willy got a slap on his hand! No punishment- and that scumbAg lied under oath
Right when I think I can't be more disgusted, insulted and embarrassed by the Trump administration, along comes # sinclairbroadcasting. Anybody who doesn't think this is deeply humiliating to the national character of the USA must not be paying attention. # GOP # realdonaldtrump
. @ RandPaul @ ScottPruittOK This is a joke. You guys are deep thinkers who I suppose graduated from college. You are no hillbilly or someone from the hood who never finished high school. if you aren't this smart, turn it in and go home
Trump’s cheap, Chinese made ties won’t be so cheap anymore.
He's Canadian. Sorry guys your stuck with Trump.
Trump will probably hire him.
# Trump propone más aranceles a # China por 100,000 mddhttps:// …
No need to worry; as soon as Trump privatizes VA care, all will be improved.
Así es, porque espantarnos ahora?
Obama was the worst ever! Worse than Bush if you can believe that.
Trump defends Mexican rapists claim during conspiracy-laden speech …
Lumpy you do realize that fact checking your lies is easy, so why do you continue to lie? Trump must be rubbing off on you, just a little to a$$ kissing going on.
I would LOVE to know, Steve's thoughts on....HOW did Donald Trump get enough people, to BUY IN to his campaign speeches & rhetoric. We ALL saw the same guy. What does this say about the country & where we go from here?? I would love to know....what Steve has to say about this.
founder Scott Rasmussen has written a conservative book called In Search of Self-Governance. They often publish factual information that utilizes loaded words (wording that attempts to influence an audience by using appeal to emotion or stereotypes) to favor conservative causes.
This chump is right up Trump’s alley! Trump’s out to destroy our Constitutional Democratic Republic and he has set in motion some of the worse haters of things that help ordinary Americans but he’s too stupid to do it himself! Bolton is so bad, he should be arrested!
…
Hey IQ45 @ realDonaldTrump …

Can we fast forward to the part where the Trumps, Kushners, Santorum, Pence et all, are put in jail and the world can go back to healing? # Mueller # peace
@ realDonaldTrump …
As border crossings rise, Trump vents frustration on illegal immigration
Seth Meyers couldn't resist ridiculing Trump over what may be one of his strangest speeches yet … via @ HuffPostComedy
Congress, Senate, our Country is in serious jeopardy. Our insanely reckless & mentally ill President must be Impeached and the 25th Amendment invoked. He must be removed from office NOW! Trump is CRAZY!
Umm, let me think... @ realDonaldTrump is lying!
DONALD TRUMP'S POPULARITY SKYROCKETS AS DEEP STATE SCRAMBLES via @ YouTube
This will be Trump's biggest bankruptcy ever he will be so proud
Somebody in the communications department probably just had a heart attack - another attempt at controlling the narrative (and the damage): failed # trump …
UPDATE: WH STATEMENT - Trump just UPPED the ante on potential trade war with China …
Why the head start?? Just asking for a friend
Is @ POTUS @ realDonaldTrump interested in justice for @ USMC Colonel # JamesSabow who was murdered because he was about to expose @ CIA drug running? @ GenDunford @ GenFlynn @
If California allows anyone to cross the border, in direct opposition to Trumps EO, they should immediately issue warrants for the Governor and the State AG...
Carlos wants Pence to be president. Guess he loves the man.
Donald Trump estudiará "seriamente" tomar medidas respecto a Amazon
I'm not saying they wouldn't impeach Trump, if the evidence of an impeachable crime is there. I'm just saying they'll resist doing it. They wouldn't even consider impeaching George W. Bush.
Momentos después del mensaje de EPN, Trump confirma hasta 4 mil militares para la frontera …
Tell @ ABC, @ CBSNews, @ NBCNews and @ PBS: There's more to covering climate change than covering Trump. We need real coverage of real science, solutions and impacts today: … via @ CREDOMobile
oh God, by what sin they killed these children why are they deprived of their childhood I am very sad the world has become like a scary forest People are fighting each other God forgive our weakness and protect us from the cruelty and evil of humans
We have the village idiot running things.
If he denied knowledge of the payment (made during the campaign in 2016), then that would mean it was made by a third party. Since it was more than the $3,500 allowed for payments by a third party to aid a campaign, whoever paid it has broken the law. And Trump just squealed. …
Trudeau agreed to offer his wife and Trump will go easy on us.
@ realDonaldTrump couldn’t help himself. @ StormyDaniels described his manhood and proved @ marcorubio correct about small hands.
Stand our ground President Trump. Make America Great Again in trades to. But don’t throw the farmers under the bus. They work hard for very little profit.
Stormy Daniels can & will make millions exposing her bitch Trump's perversions like his penchant for getting spanked & peed on by porn stars & hookers, just like Monika Lewinski makes millions off Bubba's kinky sex perversions. …
Yes, I am taking home more money. A total of $1.75
Trump inc and PUTIN have bought billions in puts on all commodities and equities to win as the markets tank. Check it out and we all will lose all our ass ets as they make billions.
Only the best and brightest swamp monsters want to work for Trump.
If this new report about Jared Kushner is true, he’ll die in prison … via @ PalmerReport How corrupt & evil is this Trump administration? They all need to be removed! Make your voice heard by voting these crooks out!
Just like the Trump and Repub Congress tax plan, huge tax cut for the richest and tax increase for the other 95%... …
@ realDonaldTrump read this is vvery scary. …
Dems call POTUS Trump stopping MS-13 Gangs and other Alien criminals from preying on American citizens "racism." I call it: "Thank you."

Mais par contre je veux vraiment savoir quelle queen a voter pour Trump
Margarita ud está trabajando para Lopez Obrador. Y lo sabe, mejor díganos que se trae ??
The firing of Kevin Williamson proves the left does not like diversity of thought. They're doing all they can to assure a Trump 2020 victory.
Agree President Trump! They're liars and always will be. Glad you're not letting them get away with it. Keep it up! You're doing great and the people of the US are behind you!
Everything in Trump world is “at levels never seen before” he has a limited vocabulary, that’s all that it means
Trump: Migrant Caravans Raping Women at 'Levels Never Seen Before' | … via @ Newsmax
Trump solicita $ 100 mil millones en aranceles adicionales para productos chinos …
Amazing Trump didn't have sex with her when he was POTUS
In 2017: U.S. exported $130B in goods to China. U.S. imported $505B in goods from China. Thats a trade deficit (imbalance) of $375B, but not money that we’re actually losing, right? If trade breaks down between the two countries, doesn’t the U.S. lose an extra $130B annually?
25 species, including Pacific walrus, denied endangered protection by Trump administration
Trump solicita $ 100 mil millones en aranceles adicionales para productos chinos …
NOBODY loves @ realDonaldTrump as much as Donald J Trump. # SAD
pero lo que le hizo ganar a trump la presidencia no fue el votante de origen mexicano, en estados unidos hay un porcentaje muy alto de la poblacion que piensa de mexico lo mismo que trump que son racistas y esos le hicieron ganar
Where did Apollo 13 oxygen tank go? Has that candidate not yet resolved its' conflict with the air lobby?
free comes with a price i guess!!
It has become all too obvious. Trump can't lie to save his ass. As a matter of fact it seems he always lies before he tells the truth. The "Wasn't Me" syndrome, total narcissist..
Ed Henry .. Great Interview! Arrogant Pruitt thought he was getting normal Softball Fox Questions You sure that you and Shep are at the Right Station
If anyone is familiar with abusing women, it certainly is Donald Trump.
Go "BIG D"..................
Hahahahahaha seriously?
IF Trump loses but doesn’t leave... democracy dies. IF Trump fires Mueller...democracy dies. When Hillary ACTUALLY DOES GET debate questions in advance, screws Bernie and his supporters? No democracy issues. You teach your students to worry about “If’s” and ignore reality?
2)Then wtf is resistance about. Obama said EVERY WORD HIMSELF! The GOP WOULD NOT WORK WITH HIM 4 8yrs.He was Physically marching in Mississippi & from Clinton’s through Trump ( Russian collusion has targeted them ALL). # DividedWeFall good night..
Clearly the fat # MoronInChief is mentally going downhill fast repeating the same old bull argument about millions of illegal voters who don't exist! FFS - # 25thAmendmentNow CNN: Trump repeats debunked voter fraud claim. …
Trump is such a daily embarrassment. Like a cranky baby with diaper rash.
No, just curious
Mexico president joins political foes to blast Trump border plan
Stone cold lie to create unrest. It’s a given that # Trump will lie constantly, but where is the @ GOP leadership condemning this behavior. When violence finally breaks out, @ SenateMajLdr, @ SpeakerRyan and the rest of Congressional Leadership will have blame to share. # CorruptGOPhttps:// …
Actually Daniel, the report of the immigrant caravan of mainly individuals from Honduras intent on attacking our borders was from @ aflores , a reporter/activist from liberal rag Buzzfeed, it didn’t originate with Fox News. Head on back to your little “facts are optional” Party
Nope. Just because you say it doesn't make it true. Chump is going to prison! Yaaay!!!
Buy more.
@ GOP holds trump to different standards. He can do anything. Putin puppet
@ realDonaldTrump Start hitting attorneys where it hurts sources of income cash cows attorney closed mortgage loans is an oxymoron etc ....... @ CNN
suppose this means tRump didn't pay cambridge analytica for their work either? what a peach @ GOP. …
It's sickening. What can be done to stop this gross fabrication? People are going to be deterred from voting, the more Donald Trump repeats this blatant lie ("what's the point?") and apathy is the biggest enemy of achieving high voter-turnout. @ ACLU
Another example of T.UR.D.- Trump Unacceptance Resistance Disorder. This time from a State Senator. Can you imagine the outrage if this same "joke" was made about Obama?
Lmao no he didn't! God said love thy neighbor!
Do you like Leeks in your borscht??
Can you imagine if Trump was President during the Cuban Missile Crisis? Or during the Cold War? He needs self-restraint instead of confrontation every single time.
Mexico Agrees to Pay for Trump’s Psychiatric Care …
You mean the FBI crime stats that show even illegal immigrants commit half as many crimes as native born citizens? Yeah, that is what data actually shows. I said we should make it legal for them to cross, clearly you should be speaking to someone on your level instead.
How are elected officials so stupid..
U.S. seen setting up two new bases in Syria as Trump announces 'rapid end' to military mission …
It can't be the case that opposing Donald Trump for president of the United States (which should be a very very easy call) is a free pass to be allowably awful in other ways, can it?
@ GOP @ NRA 10 Things Trump Supporters Are Too Stupid To Realize … via @ reverbpress
Trump taking ‘serious look’ at policy options on Amazon
AMEN!!!
Nobody cares Kate. Keep your Oregon pansies in your own state...
Does that mean Amazon, too or are you still mad at WAPO? Maybe you meant America is open for business, except Amazon.
@ realDonaldTrump is a Bullcon man! He's the best at it; constantly bulling America with his BIGLY lies & conspiracy theories when things don't go his way! # NarcissisticPussyGrabbingSexualPredator is this # IdjitPresident
Your “slam” to President Trump is to build metaphorical bridges and not an actual wall?
And @ realDonaldTrump doesn’t know if & when Daniels used a magazine on his derrière, AND he doesn’t know the 10 months of Horizontal Mombo with Karen McDougal and he doesn’t remember how Melania conceived an infant child BUT he does remember being Putin’s Lap for kisses!
@ TheStoryFNC @ jasoninthehouse @ FoxNews @ realDonaldTrump SWAMP Clip: Needs to be circulated @ marthamaccallum . Speculated the Fraternal Brother (Sister) Hood, but not to this extent; jaw opener!!!
Donald J Trump Putin puppet is going to start a trade war & will soon end in global economic collapse! GOP FAULT …
How’s your 410-K? Dow futures indicate more than 400 point drop at market open after Trump threatens more tariffs on China …
Lamentable al xenófobo de Trump ha hecho como quiere a este presidente y llamando de lo peor a México ,es hora de estar unidos necesitamos 1 sacar a corruptos del PRI Y PAN que han robado al país
Kentucky legislators send tax cuts for wealthy, tax hikes for the other 95 percent to governor’s desk. Just like Trump. What a role model! …
Drops mic!
Yay! Closer to impeachment, prison and making Our America Great Again!
“We are not in a trade war with China” - Donald J. Trump 4/4/18
@ realDonaldTrump @ KellyannePolls @ JudgeJeanine @ seanhannity @ IngrahamAngle # MAGA
Not as much as American’s 401k Retirement Plans are relieved Obama is not our President. to Thank you @ realDonaldTrump
The left has never met a president they can't hate, as long as he is right.
# Chinese response out on # Trump comments
The "if true" is very important since Trump lies every time he says something!
@ realDonaldTrump NO ONE is more dangerous than Soros. His money touches so many illegal actions and STILL isn't arrested? Obama State Dept used taxpayer dollars to fund George Soros group's political activities in Albania, watchdog group says # Soros
Following back fast! # fbr
Ohhh...keep saying “Obama” who is NOT the president or in any office right now instead of looking at the real corruption in your own damn people and party. No decency. No leadership. Just a waste of taxpayer $$ on stupid things this guy wants for no good reason.
Trump wants National Guard on Mexican border until wall built
How does trump claim to KNOW all of millions of voters did so illegally. It’s a conspiracy theory by definition if he has no personal knowledge nor data to show it occurred
Way not move over and let the big dogs fight
Then no need for a wall or the military.
Mini Trumps?
While China is in a weaker spot wrt leverage due to lop-sided trade balance they are smartly targeting categories which Trump country produces. # TradeWar
He isn’t good at it so it shows up right away. The media has made it an art form. Way more disturbing in my opinion.
Well yeah, Trump is already prepping them with comments to reporters.
Nah, its willful blindness by people supporting Dems. You just wont objectively look at whats happened. I was very Anti- Romney but little by little what I was being told wasn't making sense. I had to switch my support. And I will again If I see Trump doing what Obama/Hilary did.
You are the one who deflected or that’s ok because you are a Democrat? Different set of rules.
Apparently someone forgot to tell the Chinese that they were not supposed to respond to Trump's tariffs. Well, this'll teach 'em!!!
Crying? It's illegal dumb-ass. Insider trading? Who in the WH and other cronies of his shorted # Amazon stock before @ realDonaldTrump attacked them and JeffBezos ?
This is what you do when you hear voices. Trump threatens $100 billion in additional tariffs on China # SmartNewshttp:// …
@ realDonaldTrump Lil Scottie likes VROOM-VROOM & sirens just like you! You two could be twins! Tweedle-Dumb & Tweedle-Dumber. What a bunch of morons. …
Trump wants National Guard on Mexican border until wall built | Reuters … …
Hey there Big Guy. Why not visit a blue state once in a while? Chicken?
Operative word is “if” but let me say this, I am 100% in favor of criminalizing the filing of tax returns to claim refunds or credits of any kind by anyone not authorized to work in the US. Being here is a privilege, not a right, for non-citizens. Best not to abuse it.
Actually I don't, but if you're not even an American citizen.. you commenting is moot. See ya.
Stop tweeting about your personal finances.
I know... I was hoping he would realize that he was more stupid than anyone else in the discussion for putting words in your mouth. Wishful thinking???
'The Atlantic' Fires Kevin Williamson. This Is How You Got Trump. Really. # tcot
Trump Blah Blah …
I dont think I said that I want to kick out other religions. They can live in harmoney and peace with Hindus if they respect all other religions and agree that there will be @ noconversion. You need to discover for yourself which is a religion with 'Strong Fundamentals'.
Surprised you’re capable.
Yes the Rock is correct. Career politicians are a scourge on this country. We need more people Like President Trump, a businessman, who actually gets things done.
It is when it was when they were called out. And not at the numbers they had. They said it was ho est mistakes but the mistakes only happen to Trump and conservatives. Rare is a mistake effecting a democrat negatively! All news agencies do but again the number and negativity
Dow futures indicate more than 400 point drop at market open after Trump threatens more tariffs on China
What a perfect Trump-style statement: if US farmers get harmed, the US President would not have any responsibilities- Adding tariffs and inviting stronger China retaliation — but don’t blame me if US economy gets hurt—it’s all their fault. …
Trump told Jesse he would support his campaign. Jesse says we need a wrestler in the White House. Lol this is so cute. Nothing horrible could come from this meaningless segment.
Ni México ni ningún otro país debe permitir el racismo, una potencia mundial debe tener un dirigente a la altura no una escoria como @ realDonaldTrump. En terminos genrales la relacion entre ambos paises siempre ha sido buena. # NoAlRacismohttps:// …
Omg please tell me this is photoshopped # MAGA & get Trump a wig. …

BWAHAHAHAHA. You Liberals have no intelligence. So anyone who disagrees with your way of thinking is a Russian bot?
@ ultradavid LTG is like trump he can say and do whatever and his base will be behind him no matter what.
Trump would be on much stronger ground if he (gasp!)worked with his allies in the EU and Canada, which have many of the same complaints against China.
Anda y decile a Trumps cual es la verdad de argentina no la qo le dice macri
@ realDonaldTrump Il dit qu'on peut se mentir et imaginer être en 1reclasse pour Londres, mais que tout le monde sait qu'on prend un fret pour Débile City.
But the coach trashes trump weekly so it’s cool haha
Lol
Senate Investigators Spent 7 Hours Interviewing A Former Trump Business Associate Who Tried To Get Him A Deal With Moscow … via @ LoopEmma
Lol. Both Gilbert and Trump employ many many many more minorities than LeBron James.

Lmao what’s that got to do with his music, he’s just a kid not like he told his parents to vote for trump …
Donald # Trump disse que não sabia sobre o # Pagamento de 130 mil dólares a # Atriz # Pornô … # Pornôpic
Trump has no position on any policy that doesn’t directly affect him personally
you believe a jr hi girl? say what? this MSM FN attack against Trump is beyond the pale
Trump only has emotion. Facts are foreign to him. …
Damn...that building from outside to inside is EXACTLY a snake's HEAD. Check the windows out. I don't have the images...but I saw them in the posts.
was the Citigroup analysis Amazon specific? No. Hence why he's wrong.
Look at the large child sitting on the right. @ realDonaldTrump Acting like he’s being scolded cuz he is! Haha.... #
Trump is a rapist drug lord.
I can understand the views of how gun ownership works in the US by people that don't live here, but there no way that anything like Australian style laws could pass here. The American people are very individually minded and would resist those types of actions with equal force.
. @ CNN's @ ErinBurnett: Is There Any Way to Interpret @ realdonaldtrump's Tweets as 'Anything Other Than Racist?'
"One of the worst"?!? How about THE worst, even in 100 years, no one will bottom feed more than trump!
Hmm..given Trump's passing acquaintence with the truth, his narcissism that borders on sociopathy I'm not surprised.
Did you hear the former governor of Tennessee is running for the senate seat who is a Democrat to take out the female Republican senator. And I believe Trump won Tennessee I like 20 points. In the polls now the Dem is leading by 10 in polls.
Explicaciones con mi mejor amigo de porque @ realDonaldTrump nos odia:
No....No one says ban babies. We say prevent pregnancies by making birth control something we actually teach about. Be willing to take responsibility for the lives you demand be saved. The father of the child should be held accountable as well
It really changes the game when they attack children. Protect the children. Be creative.
More made up shit from the @ POTUS ... The # Trump base will eat this up!
Now we know why @ FLOTUS sleeps in a separate bed. That's a rats nest.
so right ! cause he is going to go down for CONSPIRACY just because the news calls it collusion doesn't mean a damn thing. collusion isn't even legal term conspiracy however , Now that's a different story and by voting for him , we can get you on conspiracy to commit treason
I don't hate him. Enough hate in this world. He is a horrible person and I am ashamed of him as POTUS because of his constant stream of hate. Dick Durbin of IL created DACA with Obama's help to assist in turning children who were brought here illegally into legal citizens.
# Trump trade moves rattle GOP in rural America
Maybe he is following Trump’s example!
Trump: ik wist niets over betaling aan Stormy Daniels …
I’m sure that’s true! I can teach you all kinds of things about federal criminal law, what it feels like to birth and raise twins, maybe even how to paint and you could teach me about whatever you’d like to teach me!
Trump doesn't even know the meaning of what he says at times.
Sadiq Khan refuses to accept any responsibility for deaths in London. He's not exactly statesman-like, is he? He'll lie down on the tarmac if Trump arrives in UK but won't speak to bereaved parents. The man (loose term) is a complete joke. …
Wow, a case of who’s running who in this place! Sounds like a foreigner (Chinese) acting as if they are a above local (Pakistan) law. Key word is “this is not the first time.”
Your a true piece of shit @ RandPaul . I was a healthy, high provider until I was struck down with disease. Guess what caused that disease? Pesticides. Fuck you Rand Paul. Ur a greedy little $ grubber like the rest. Lax regulations kill Americans & cost tax payers billions
Nah tim we laughing at you and your TDS!
Stock market during Obama was at historic highs. Stop using the stock market. Plus Bush left Obama a shitshow.

I can’t tell if Stormy’s attorney is, like, really good at lawyering or it’s just that Trump and Cohen are so terrible they make him look really good in contrast.
Newt Gingrich sees correlation between rise of Trump and fall of mainstream media …
Is he trying to completely tank our economy?
# TrumpTrain @ realDonaldTrump You were Tricked by Sessions, Rosenstein. There is no fair investigation. Deep state is out to get you #
Time to boycott anything he touches!
# Ohio So this man @ Dennis_Kucinich is followed by some Bernie Saunders fans. I know this one is about Ohio this time. I won't back Bernies' here in Florida. Populist Dennis Kucinich, running for governor as Democrat, has bashed Obama, defended Trump …
Where did snorting condoms come from, missed that Voting, not missing that!
Why do the # FakeRepublicans blame anyone but themselves. Corrupt politicians need to be voted out of congress starting with Ted Cruz. Fire Pruitt too.
Dow futures indicate more than 400 point drop at market open after Trump threatens more tariffs on China …
Crazy old fuck.
Crazy Trump is too much fun.
Apparently you don’t....You keep thinking that way partna. Trump will be our down fall in so many ways.
@ LouDobbs @ RealDonad_Trump @ SparkleSoup45 So folks now what? …
Do you support President Trump’s plan to send National Gaurd to the southern border?
I think Kelley will go before Pruitt
Heroico, vamos al ángel a celebrar
Whoops there goes another GOP seat.
Trump gato ahre
Trump Lauds Tax Cuts On Road Trip As Most Americans Still Don't See A Benefit - HuffPost …
Monday was Katya's R word gif usage Tuesday was James Charles copying Brolaska (and Katya+Trixie) Wednesday was James Charles getting his own show picked up Today is Eureka following Trump (as if non-trump supporters do not follow him lmfao) …
Trump 2nd term. …
If you wanted to save the @ USNationalGuard the bother of having to patrol the international border you would have authorized funds to # build the wall long ago.
Trump is considering and additional 100 billion in tariffs on China. Rip the stock market
Well in all do honesty @ larry_kudlow financial acumen has never been impressive but his coke game was lit....
Maybe offer incoming illegals sanctuary in Puerto Rico. They can help rebuild Puerto Rico.
Trump to speechwriter: “go find me the most batshit crazy thoughts from the comments section and turn it into a speech.” “Then we’ll turn it into POLICY.”
Okay then!
You lady need to go to the wall and stand there with a National Guard and see for yourself what is trying to enter the country and Destroy America. You need to stay there for a while maybe it'll wake you the hell up
Not new news: facts don’t matter in trump America. “Pawpaw” has the mic and we just have to drown in this titanic nightmare.
rothschild
Spent the day in Philadelphia being reminded of how hard our founders fought for America & I’m even angrier at the incompetent @ realDonaldTrump. He isn’t fit to hold the same office that Washington held. Sitting 5ft away from Washington’s actual tent was kind of incredible.
Mexican president to Trump: ‘Nothing and no one stands above the dignity of Mexico’ - POLITICO …
Ohh jeez ... Trump continues to be idiotic
Hey Spanky, release your taxes. You screwed the pooch on the Stormy front today. Does she have a PP tape? Mueller's coming!
It looks like fighting China is the only way to unite DEM and ROP so far, and trump can do more if he want to fight Russia either.
It's just too bad the deplorables didn't see it before the election. She's been right all along
Nope! I’m replying to people replying to me. You started if all by saying those recession numbers were on Trump. Bye!
China will retaliate until the end of Trumps term....Trump is going to punish the US people with his trade game.
If you weren't simply releasing Fox you'd know where these people wanted to go, but you are simply to stupid to follow real news for more than five minutes, and background check is not a common word 4u, @ potus
@ washingtonpost 100 Billion $ in Tariffs -45th Said. Where is the Agent from the Movie Matrix; To make sure Trump can't talk to any1.I told the MINERS, Farmers, and Auto ppl. DT is going to Burn you - Econ- goN to Collapse-left party=SORRY. SAD P ART - REFUSES look-HISTORY=1929
Trump is way to ADHD to read one page and retain anything from it! Attention span is too small!
Manier om sneller de procedure door te lopen. HRC had het over wetgeven met de EO, daar houdt Trump zich volledig buiten.
Agree! @ OutFrontCNN Erin B didn't say anything but look on her face when trump was slobbering over "Mexico rapes" was priceless.
Aw you resorted to anger... proves that I'm right. Pro tip: There should be only three people you listen to in your life Me,Donald trump, and Jenny McCarthy

He's a disgrace for pointing out truths you don't want to acknowledge? the entire state of California is trying to be sanctuary.... why do you think that "need" is even there for politicians to pander for?? Think think think!
Pretty great time exploring the White House today for the 1st time!! While the White House broke the scale in terms of the sheer elegance & glorious History that the East Wing entailed, Ultra Furious that I didn't get to meet @ realDonaldTrump ! Annoyed by the security too
I made a thing. @ StormyDaniels @ MichaelAvenatti @ realDonaldTrump #
Fake news!
El mismo tarado que invitó a Trump a México ha hablado de una manera digna, lástima que lo hizo muy tarde. Bien, Peña Nieto. …
NOpe it was Hilary Clinton who called Trump supporters a “basket of deplorabls” Trump never said anything negative about his supporters. Proves my point. Left I self righteous arrogant people!
He tried that and you turned him down. He needs to start playing hardball with you obstructionist
# Trump to promote US as trade 'partner of choice' at Peru summit -
Trump is already at work to contest the midterm elections. …
WE WERE WARNED, AND NOW ITS HAPPENING!! TRUMP DID HIS BEST TO INFORM US ... via @ YouTube
Trump Hypes ‘Caravans’ of Asylum-Seekers as Pretext to Militarize US Border …
Si condiciona su permanencia a cambio de que Mexico pague el muro, por supuesto que no se aceptara y USA se sale del TLC y así sencillo... sin dramas de humillación, a Trump le gusta el show y le están alimentando el ego!!

. @ POTUS Trump le pide a sus asesores que consideren $100 mil millones adicionales en aranceles a productos chinos, luego de que China respondiera a los $50 mil millones iniciales con la misma cifra. No es trabalenguas.
Good question, Albert. Confronting the Chinese economic decision bureaucracy doesn't bother Xi Jinping, but if Trump makes his threats look like confrontation directly w/Xi&his aides, that could alter present good ties of PLA and DOD. …
@ realDonaldTrump DOTARD. Enough said.
how could CNN be so clueless about Trump ??
You’re big on the antidepressant drugs thing.. project much? Also big on suing people... project Trump much.., Oh, and reporting to TWITTER.. calm down.. you kinda hyped up.. unhinged .. triggered?
Spoiler: Trump has no idea either.

This has absolutely NOTHING to do with Trump's 'administration' ! …
Sure does!
The Dotard won't let anyone near his bed sheets so i'm SURE he pees AND craps in his bed every night. It's either because of Mueller or all that fast food he eats in his bed.
well, of course. I'm just referring specifically to the conversation of which individual drag race queen voted for Trump that people are having right now on twitter
Trump is letting our children get slaughtered in the streets while the # Gopcomplicit does NOTHING. # GOPComplicit # NraBloodMoney # GunControlNow # GunsenseNow # Nomore # NeverAgain # VoteThemOut 2018. # ACTNOW # WeCallBS #
Trump probably threw away his scripted speech in W. Virginia today because there weren’t a lot of “I”’s and “ME’s” in it. Instead he goes off on a tirade about phony votes (can’t get over Hillary getting more votes) and his racist comments about Mexicans. Sad # IdiotInChief @ ABC
President Donald Trump say he was considering slapping tariffs on another $100 billion in Chinese imports, which would triple the amount of Chinese goods facing import levies … via @ WSJ
I think it's time to send the military into California and push out the illegals by force. Arrests of traitors need to be made and it makes no sense to defend a fence with enemies at your back. @ RealDonad_Trump @ POTUS @ mike_pence
Trump is a corrupt dork …
Just look at the stock market for his supposed baseless accusations.
Or she made too little.
True. He can win with our help! CA-11 needs a Dem that represents real progress, will actually take the fight to the Trump admin, and that did not used to be a Republican.
I live 8000 feet above Denver....I hand-feed deer apples. I leave peanuts for the squirrels and bird seed for my feathered friends...carrots for the wild rabbit. Elk herds travel through my property. This is what sustains me in the crazy, illogical tRump era.
It was a ploy - which is good. and they would still vote Dem. Trump said in his last rally he offered it b/c he knew they wld not accept.
President Trump "is about the last person on earth who is positioned morally to raise awareness about sexual assault." – Fmr. CIA Chief of Staff Jeremy Bash says on @ DeadlineWHhttps://
Stand firm Mr President. Don't let the # Swamp divide and conquer you. # MAGA
China won’t slap back, they’ll throw a bomb into the US economy. Welcome to trump madness.
This is @ realDonaldTrump acting like a child that doesn’t get his way! @ GOP can you please put Trump back in his Day Care Crib! This is PATHETIC now! Trump threatens China with $100 billion in new tariffs - CBS News …
Let's vote on @ realDonaldTrump's assrape of @ MichaelCohen212 Which has been the most brutal? # StormyDaniels
Retweeted The New York Times ( @ nytimes): Breaking News: An extra $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods will be considered, President Trump said, doubling down on a potential trade war
Make America great again!
Will Trump kill air freight? - Transport & Logistics News
@ realDonaldTrump Found another SHITHOLE! …
Maybe you should read Title 32. Trump has to have consent. I know... Consent is a new word for him. # CantRapeTheUS
And all the # Brainwashed Idiots will vote for him.. and then they'll all cry when it goes south, Like in London.. # BanIslam # AmericaFirst # DeportThemAll
It was $50/night, so a little over a month. The fact that he still has a job is amazing. Meanwhile, the “silent majority” Trump says he represents can’t be more than 10 minutes late to work without reprimand.
OMG!!! They have vid of Trump leaving a bathroom with toilet paper attached to his shoe!! …
Ask, quietly, why he defected to Team Trump
Kinda wanna buy stock in Amazon just to make @ realDonaldTrump mad.
America First, for Charles Lindbergh and Donald Trump … america first, putin russia first, xi china first, erdogan turkey first, assad my guys first, iran we first, netanyahu israel first, orban hungaria first, egypt first, 85 years ago hitler germany first
What do you think of this scenario...we go back & forth (as the market falls), until one side gives up/compromises (most likely China bc of Trump's stubbornness), and then big gap up off the news
Interesting photo selection
The contract made concessions on behalf of Trump. Concessions that can't actually be offered without his knowledge and consent. His attorney has been very vocal Trump knew nothing about the contract. Cohen failed to meet the terms of the contract.
MSNBC Sees Trump 'Playing the Race Card' Against 'Uppity Black Person' Obama
Trump wants National Guard on Mexican border until wall built | Reuters … # SmartNews
$ MU Why does Trump do those things AM?
Nixon went down because he commanded a criminal enterprise. It's highly unlikely we'll demonstrate Trump did anything remotely in that ballpark. If it's just obstruction, good luck getting 2/3 of the Senate to convict. You'll need GOP votes which...ha ha, sure, buddy!
Trump's cabinet. …
Please tell us the truth
AMLO PIDE A TRUMP RESPETO A LOS MEXICANOS . …
1. If I'm reading this right, the George in London Strzok is talking about is popadopoulos, and this predates his working on the trump campaign. This is evidence he was an FBI plant, & was being used as a frame up of team trump. …
# MAGA..SERIOUSLY! Are TRUMP supporters READING THIS??!!! I cannot fathom the idea that they VOTED for someone who is basically tearing apart the country and are perfectly okay with it. Trump makes headlines on another unpredictable day in office …
Que você prefere, ter a Donald Trump ou Kanye West como presidente? — penso só abrir o cc uma pergunta massa …
@ ErinBurnett Seriously, Erin? Seriously? You invite a guy on to try to justify Trump's Preposterous lie about millions of people voting in California. And then you give him the benefit of the doubt? He's already on the side of the lie. Is there no conserv point U won't endorse?
OUR MILITARY KNOWS IT, WHY THEY ARE IN CONTROL!
This is absolutely what they should do! Trump's administration couldn't care less about the majority of Americans. Really pathetic. # BlueWave
Former @ realDonaldTrump aide Paul Manafort approved 'black ops' to help Ukraine president # TrumpRussiaCollusion # GRUhttps:// …
Only if it includes the words "Most Wanted" across it! # LockHimUp
You always have absolutely nothing to say!!
Respect?! Trump & his treasonous admin deserve respect?! Do some reading on the history of Fascism and realize what is happening to our democracy. Try Madeleine Albright’s newest book. Doubt you will, though, but give it a try.
@ realDonaldTrump here's a novel idea. Govern! That is why you are in Washington. At least pretend. # chinatariffshttps:// …
No, Obama hasn't left the country because he spied on Trump … via @ PunditFact
Oregon is a "Already-GONE!" # NationalGuard @ OregonGovBrown # LoserState # AlreadyGONE # Unpatriotic @ OregonGuard Oregon gov. won’t send National Guard troops to Mexico border if Trump asks | TheBlaze …
¿Apoyas en @ EPN en su postura ante el Gobierno que encabeza @ realDonaldTrump?
There's no doubt there's going to be a Blue Wave just like there's no doubt many of the Republican Party along with Donald Trump will be going to prison I imagine some of the cowards will commit suicide when they find out they're going but either way Justice
Ok the fact that this hooligan can present himself and represent his country better than @ realDonaldTrump, like I’m so confused/why am I starting to like the hooligan …
Ya mejor dale de patadas a Trump para que se calle
Sigh someone really hates pig farmers RT @ CNBCnow: BREAKING: Dow futures slide, point to 420+ drop at tomorrow's market open, after Trump asks USTR to consider $100B more in tariffs against Chinese products
Too back we can't remove trump like this guy is removing trump sign. …
Trump floated replacing Sessions with Pruitt this week - CNNPolitics # SmartNewshttps:// …
Trump Doubles Down on Potential Trade War With China via @ NYTimes Now we know how @ POTUS & @ HouseGOP will pay for the # GOPTaxScam on the backs of US consumers with higher prices. # UnFitForOffice # MAGAMoronsAreGoverningAmericahttps:// …
Ah yes, for those on the take, those without morals, and for criminals, grifters and oligarchs, this Administration is open for business. @ tedlieu @ SteveSchmidtSES @ ColMorrisDavis @ allinwithchris
Trump National Guard Border Plan to Look Like Bush, Obama Deployments … # NewsandPolitics via @ pjmedia_com
POTUS45 understands his base. he lies, lies and lies more without fear. he knows his bushels of despicables will believe his 4th grade level speaking as gospel. trump is a master at manipulating limitations of his followers to his advantage.
Agree that Trump has little compassion, but then, most sociopaths and narcissists have little of that. California would get some help from DT bc he has investments there. He owes PR $34million, so he is eager to shame them w/ their debt. As a POTUS, he does not have to pay up
Trump unilaterally piling on another $100 billion in personal China Trade War …
So glad I don't live in CA ...all the fruits and nuts run for public office..
Good, and I just cant stand Ryan , he will try to subvert our Maga candidates.
. @ realdonaldtrump @ whitehouse well well well it seems that pruitt wants to appear to be the president: E.P.A. Officials Sidelined After Questioning @ EPAScottPruitt: Why are you ALL a bunch of greedygoblins wasting taxpayers' money? A damn desk is a desk!
@ realDonaldTrump …
@ SenateGOP @ HouseGOP @ GOP you need to control @ realDonaldTrump or you’re going to lose power. Oh wait you’ve never been able to. These tariffs are hurting everyone... even your base. Trumpgret is spreading, which means GOPgret is spreading. Clock is ticking to right the ship.
@ TheJusticeDept @ POTUS @ realDonaldTrump
Did anyone notice . @ realDonaldTrump BLUE/WHITE STRIPE tie today at his speech in West Va.? Do you think he showed us that he won the colors and defeated that temple? # qanon so many other "crumbs" in speech
Not to let the facts get in the way of ur narrative but I stated Troops. 1) National Guard is a reserve unit component of US Military 2) Trump deployed National Guard same as Barry + GW National_Guard_of_the_United_States
@ realDonaldTrump For any military members or vets who still support the draft dodger, remember "Anyone who would not risk coming home under our flag, should never stand on it and say they are a patriot". trump is still the same coward he was in the 60's
Certainly, Democrats are centralized around metro areas; this is true even in Texas, where every major city is blue. I hope turnout is higher in November, though it seems likely to me that Brown holds her seat.
@ sarahkendzior Didn’t Trump do a FOX interview where he stated something like you have to break/dismantle everything (in government) and then build it back up? …
I did ask my CPA, and he even said there was no difference. And he's also a Trump supporter! But he did say next year the taxes will be different.
Ex-postmaster general defies Trump by 'unequivocally' stating that Amazon's contract is profitable for the US Postal Service
We hate Clinton, moron. Bernie Sanders was cheated. Now we are grass rooting his belief.
Donald Trump told "little boy" Jared Kushner to go home … via @ PalmerReport
COME ON @ realDonaldTrump DO IT! WE DARE YOU! @ SenateGOP @ HouseGOP @ SenMajLdr @ SpeakerRyan HOW LONG BEFORE CORRUPTION CATCHES UP WITH U? @ SenateDems @ HouseDemocrats @ TomPerez @ TomSteyer Trump threatens to slap $100 billion in additional tariffs on China …
all this to send the National Guard to the border is a tantrum of Trump and his main advisor Fox News since he could not get the blank check he asked in exchange for negotiating DACA later in the last budget there was nothing and his popularity is in the worst level. Waste of
No, it's time to drop 45.
WOW! California Democrat Sen. Kamala Harris Cracks DEATH JOKE About President Trump (VIDEO) …
… interesting history on House of Saud # Qanon @ realDonaldTrump knows his history
Haha say the # FakeNews # Troll The # resistance is a big fat
Yeah ok. Republicans are anti America?
Trump is not well.
No, I really don't. With all the things he has done to try to kill the aca, the majority of people are like me. Facing horrendous increases in costs. Much more than even before the aca.
Trump wants Pruitt to get Sessions’ job...then for Pruitt to fire Mueller. It’s so obvious!
Retweeted John Bunyan ( @ Thecoalthief): A must listen from @ MkBlyth RT @ regionallink: 35 - Brexit, Trump, & the Bursting Neoliberal Bubble ft. Mark Blyth via @ YouTube
I can tweet about JESUS if I want.
@ realDonaldTrump @ POTUS @ SenateGOP @ HouseGOP @ SenateMajLdr @ SpeakerRyan @ JohnCornyn @ GOPLeader BUILD THE DADGUM WALL, NOW! DITCH MITCH/REPLACE RYAN Do something good for AMERICA! # MAGAhttps:// …
racism much?
Plenty of Republicans did, douchebag- nice try! Go back to masturbating and Fox "News" please
obama had 60% approval at this time in his presidency.
Trump supporters was all Over Mariska til they found out she was Democratic HFHFHFHF
Unidad nacional y respeto a nuestra dignidad y soberanía, mensajes importantes para los mexicanos, y también urgentes y categóricos para el xenófobo Presidente vecino @ realDonaldTrump. …

"Robert Mueller has been on a deep sea fishing expedition that has yielded nothing but scarce bones & liberal nothing burgers. At this point, his party is so starved for something to eat politically, they're going to turn to political cannibalism just to survive. Mmm. Delicious!"
Does else anyone wonder if Trump is deliberately making stocks plummet so him and his corrupt friends can buy them low?
@ realDonaldTrump Put the swamp dwellers and their crimes in front of the American people through news conferences. We can decide who stays and who goes.
Previously Published on January 14, 2018@7:14pm # Sean Penn went after @ RealDonaldTrump, going so far as to call him an “enemy of mankind” ║ … Filed in # Hollywood & Entertainment
Outside LA, San Diego, SF Bay Area and Fresno, California is pretty empty.
I think lighthizer and trump are pulling a practical joke on larry kudlow
Only this one…
Is @ realDonaldTrump talking about his experiences? Can't quite make out what is true with his constant rambling.
Now I do say Trump is a sexual predator because he is. …
The very thing I've Tweeted Trump about several times. Apparently, Trump Tweets, he just doesn't read incoming Tweets?
@ USAGSessions @ BPUnion
Wtf is his end game? Xi has no voters to care about what he does. AG Farmers gonna be PISSED.
Mhhh @ realDonaldTrump is saying and doing so many dumb things. I wonder why is he trying to distract the public this time. Mueller found new evidence?
maybe the now defunct trump university!
Gracias!!
Can't wait for Trump to show up in May.
…
There’s something to be said for good sense, tho
Sorry, but if you voted for Trump, you're a fucking idiot. I don't give a shit if Hillary lied and Bernie is a socialist. But Trump is as low you can go. Each week we find more and more about how shitty this guy is.
Trump hired all rich people, what did you think they would do? You get rich by luck or corruption. These people only know how to take advantage of the system. Spend, spend, spend, but HELL the boss lives in Florida setting the example @ CNN @ foxandfriends @ MSNBC
The world should refuse to trade with the USA, then we will see Americans get their sanity back by dumping Trump.
My kitten was visibly scared and backed away from my magazine with Trump on the cover. I wish I had a video.
The true story is: US without KSA in our region is always loosing.This what happened in Iraq invasion which cost them 7 trillions $ according to Trump. KSA advice US at that time not to proceed with the invasion because it will create a huge mess to the region and the world.
If you have seen him on MSNBC you will find him exceptionally critical of Trump. One of many conservatives who are disgusted with him!
you a little later Mr Trump that I thought. $ SPY
# Replae @ USAGSessions with Scott Pruitt @ realDonaldTrump …
@ realDonaldTrump # STFUhttps:// …
If you elect me in 2020, I will raise tarrifs on China to 900 zillion-bajillion-million! # Trump # Democrats # Republicans #
. @ OHNationalGuard spox says state has not received request from President Trump for troops to deploy to US border - but if it did, it would likely be a federal operation w no state level approval required.
# DickDurbin is a big mouth # Trump tried to level with him & he tells Press he said something with prejudice Who would ever trust Dirtbag Durban @ marklevinshow @ cnnbrk @ FoxNewshttps:// …
And why is there no investigation? There's far more evidence to this dirty deed than anything Trump supposedly did.
Trump Renews Amazon Attack, Vows `Very Serious Look' at Business … AMERICAN TAXPAYERS INDIRECTLY SUPPORT THE USPS, otherwise this service would have failed ages ago. all mail S/B Charged at the same rates that I as a Citizen pay ie: Stamps and packages etc,
Read Trump’s statement requesting $100 billion in additional China tariffs …
Stupid alert
Liar in the house. Let’s pray.
I want them out too! We just have knowledge of where & when they're going to get here.
Watching our president @ realDonaldTrump get financial advice from Million Dollar Man on @ WWE #
ATTN: TRUMP VOTERS Your president just lit the fuse to the biggest economic BOMB to hit the American economy. He is so uninformed & ignorant - he will take America down if he’s not stopped soon.
Donald Trump raises Secret Service pay caps by signing new bill.
@ ErinBurnett GURL! Trump tariffs is just manipulation of the market. Pay attention to who is selling prior to tariff threats, buting back low. Then they buy back when threat vaporizes
Compare a list of Trump campaign/inauguration donors vs Amazon short selling for the last 3 months. Voila!
That's why the # DeepState is fighting Trump so hard! They were all in on the Deal! Now they are trying to stop our President from exposing them! …
You mean, segregation?
Donald Trump, Enemy of the Free Market!
Trump is ratcheting up tensions with China by considering $100 billion in additional tariffs #
The genetic ballot is going the wrong way for Dems. Feb. CNN +16 Dems Mar. CNN +6 Dems In contrast, overall approval for Trump has gone up. On the economy he enjoys a majority. On the foreign policy, he's one North Korean denuclearization agreement away from total domination.
Hey @ betsyscribeindc @ peterogburn our boy @ eScarry is hitting the gym.. he is besties with @ realDonaldTrump now #
Trump has no idea how to negotiate! He needs to go!
Tell him! Screw that guy. One of the real winners that probably benefits from all the government assistance programs he just turns the other cheek to try and dismantle. All because he didn’t want anyone of color or a woman to make a difference. Enjoy this while it lasts idiots.
Total crap.
SS rules. RULES. So articulate. So heartfelt. We r the knitted suit. Not the hanging thread. We r the majority not the played to. Trump is the worst we have ever (EVER) been. But we r more than a moment in time
# BREAKING # MAGA # Trump # Resist # GOP # maddow # Hannity # Christians # PTL TRUMP IS SO BUSTED …
"Despite vowing to support America’s veterans, President Donald Trump and congressional Republican leaders have put forth budget... …
@ realDonaldTrump THIS IS A GREAT IDEA …
Que pretendes hacer inche ridiculo! Nos vaz atacar acá en EU! Eres un pendejo de verdad!
Like he literally was yelling to talk over everyone else so he could voice how “stupid” he is and how he “doesn’t know what’s wrong with this generation”. Cancer and Trump has truly made this man go off the deep end to a point of me hating my own grandpa. Smh.
Your response doesn't make any sense . . but then again, you are a Trump supporter; enough said. …
@ larrykudlowCNBC Would you please teach the economic Moron living in the People’s House some common sense economics? Make it simple enough that even @ realDonaldTrump can understand-really,really simple. Go into the repercussions. He has no foresight.
If only there were an antidote for my daily anger at Trump and the complicit GOP. # NovemberIsComing
Trump repeats debunked voter fraud claim …
Wow, how stupid are the ones Following & Afraid of Him, just look at his EYES
I believe we should follow the leadership of our president and feel free to make baseless claims with no factual basis and present any fantasy as if it was real. "Trump announces he speaks congac & signs $2 million dollar contact for mar-a-lago rodent and insect control."
Town joins Trump administration suit against California sanctuary law
Barring # impeachment How long until Trump leaves …
Ya just gotta love all the people bitchin and moanin about Trump wanting to send national guard to the border.... yet the dumbasses didnt say shit in 2010 when Obutthead did it... or even when Bush did it.. hypocrites..go back to your safe zone
Trump says female migrants 'raped at levels' previously unseen

Such a sad response.
Really lets hear it why are they changing the word "son" to "us"? Lmao they have a great sense of humor the boarder, can't see what would go wrong.
We have to stop focusing on Trump and begin to focus on our cultural divide and how we as a nation begin to heal it. Wasn't it a cultural (slavery) divide that brought about our Civil War?
Ol Lyin’ “Big Government” Ted! You’re a disgrace to the conservative credentials you claim to carry.
Analysis | They voted for Donald Trump. Now soybean farmers could get slammed by the trade war he started. …
Dana Milbank: How Trump is transforming himself into the greatest president ever
O. is the BIGGEST MISTAKE America has ever made. Trump is the GREATEST SUCCESS America has ever made.
...offer them shelter and safety. At this point it sounds like you are just bragging for the rapist. Which I guess shouldn't be...
All she does is report the facts with proof and common sense. Just like @ amjoyshow and @ Lawrence. But I see your head is stuck up trumps butt. Just like people in #
Ex-Treasury secretary compares Trump to Mussolini …
Mexican Rapists, Voter Fraud, People Being “Cut Up“: Trump’s “Tax Reform” Speech Goes Slightly Off the - Vanity Fair …
Trump conjures a new immigrant rape epidemic … # TrumpIsNotMyPOTUS # LiarInChief # HypocriteInChief # DreamActNow # NoWall
Bye US Stock Market :(
Trump is not safe from Mueller. Not by a long shot. …
Just shut up, you are a maggot.
Too busy ripping off the American taxpayers and getting filthy rich. Trumps going to trade the Gravy Train for the Trump Train. What is her next worth again? $100M?
"Trump: 2,000-4,000 Troops Needed for Mexico Border Security" by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS via NYT …
This is overactive imagination. Trump doesn't even know what the next thing coming out of his mouth will be. He could change his mind before he hangs up the phone. TOO RISKY.
Old Fashioned...they're delicious and representative of Trump's racist misogynistic views.
I'm originally from there. You could put a toilet lid on top of that place.
Yeah, Porter’s been hired for the upcoming Trump campaign. But he won’t make upper management until he’s got an affair with a porn star under his belt.
…
Trump uses tax dollars to golf at his own resort every weekend. Waste, no? You sir are a hypocrite
Bernie Sanders will do ANYTHING to get to the White House but it's just NOT going to happen especially if he's depending on AAs and strong President Obama supporters. I guess it's why he's courting racist Trump supporters.
I truly think Trump is trying to kickstart a crash and recession now so he can claim a recovery in 2020 before the elections. He cares nothing for anybody but himself.
I have one friend that supports Trump, actually. I've had some pretty intense debates, but we're still friends. Associates don't even bother me, if they for example supported Trump. They're not close enough to matter. Though I'll mostly debate anyone.
Jim Crow etiquette
Exclusive: Scott Pruitt, Trump’s embattled EPA chief, involved in shady 2011 real estate deal …
@ larry_kudlow get Trump under control. Stop the tariff talk! It is ruining the stock market and my 401K
Apply to EVO dude, love to see it
That’s the million dollar question. They’re both bad, and unfortunately his followers believe everything he says or tweets. # Trump # LiarInChief
So protecting our borders is pointless?? What is wrong with you?? You hate Americans who pay your salary but love love love your dreamers

Here’s one Mexico, do it to help your own country. We will take care of ours, and if your crime spills over, we will take care of that!
Frumpy321, do you have a brain? If so, is it too addled by THC to form a coherent thought? If not, are you open to an honest discussion (i.e., w/o ad hominem attacks) of the ISSUES AND FACTS related to this post? Try to respond after you stop jonesing for Doritos. Oops. Gone.
FFS! For someone who had two mail-order brides and chain migrated his in laws, you have the galls to complain about immigrants? # Trump # Immigrationhttps:// …
We are a team . We are there for each other .You color , religion , politics etc mean nothing. we are American vets. .We stick together no matter what
“Merry Christmas” Donald Trump. I’m watching The Beat with Ari Melber, Michael A., Stormy’s lawyer said it’s an early Christmas for his camp.

MAGA POTUS TRUMP
Howard Cosell calling the..........2018 Mueller vs Trump Fight........Down goes Donald”, “Down goes Donald”, “Down goes Donald”
Somebody stop this monster - is he just making up shit? President Peña Nieto put out a video today and they are extremely offended by this military at the border talk & trump’s offensive remarks against Mexicans - I am also offended by trump. And disgusted
@ realDonaldTrump …
All $1.50 weekly increase in take home pay while you made millions. Ridiculous.
Nancy Pelosi Vows Democrats Will Raise Taxes if They Take Back the House at a "Repeal the Trump Tax" Town Hall (VIDEO) …
Usually, I do respect the president of the United States. Even W, with his never ending string of idiotic moments and atrocities, still he was potus and if I ever met him I would treat him that way. This is not a usual president. It matters because he is ruining our institutions
This shows exactly what Trump thinks of women! Trump & Porter are both disgusting creeps!
Thanks to Trump with his 100 billion the stock market will be on its ass again tomorrow and next week. Someone is making a ton of money every time he pulls this shit except for the everyday stock holder. This fucking guy has to go.
I believe you mistakenly addressed your tweet to Rob Reiner. Please re-send to Donald K Trump @White House. But hurry, Mueller might get to DJT before your retweet arrives.
No one wins in the long run when it comes to dick measuring contests. @ realDonaldTrump # tarrifs # TradeWar
There's a quote from "Martin" that applies to Trump; "Cole, you stupid"! …
Sally Yates Says While ‘Elections Have Consequences,’ Trump Goes Too Far
For all his # DrainTheSwamp talk, @ POTUS # TRUMP has done nothing but take orders from big $ donors, & HIRE big $ donors... as well as unqualified rich cronies, Bush castoffs, Goldman Sachs execs, etc. @ realDonaldTrump is a FRAUD. He’s destroying this nation. @ GOP: # ImpeachTrump
Damn, this “TRUMP: An American Dream” Netflix show is # Gold
Yes. Putin is getting ready to be installed in the East Wing. Co-president, right?
Trump estudia imponer otros 100 mil millones en aranceles a China
@ realDonaldTrump why the fuck u still our president.ur are corrupt as hell. Y THE HELL U STILL A PRESIDENT PERIOD. WHERE IS THE FUCKING @ GOP WHO GIVING A FUCK TO CONSTITUTION RIGHTS. @ GOP FUCK OFF U ARE GOING JUNK YARD SOON
Hahah! The source you cite is FAKE NEWS!
And willl Mueller charge Trump as an Adult or juvenile .
Trickle down has never worked wtf is wrong with people!?!
Reading your statements is like reading the National Enquirer, which my husband's grandma adored and I had fun reading to her. "Millions of people participated in voter fraud"?Your own administration debunked that. What is wrong with you, dotard? You need to find something to do.
Our children are our most precious resource and our greatest asset. Let us not ignore the fact that the Democrats are aligned with groups that openly call for the end of “whiteness” and covertly promote the aborting of African American babies. Plan Zero.
Trump BS …
Ugh!! I tried to understand the timestamps and (6 1 8 [12]) !! You've got the skills!!
You’re the one who cares more about your grudge than our Country & wants @ realDonaldTrump to fail. # unpatriotic
Trump's proposed Syria exit quite possibly a reelection flare. With # NorthKorea coming up, he needs to start collecting points. On Syria, regardless of the reality he can tell his adoring base "we took care of ISIS" and got the boys home.
I think it is OLD news and it is time to move on here's a thought work with @ realDonaldTrump instead of against him. think of the stuff that would be getting done
Trump claims his favorite conspiracy theory is 'not a conspiracy theory' … via @ thinkprogress
Finally News thats not about the pathetic man we call president ruining what we break our backs for, for his own profit The news should be showing more stories like this and not trumps stupid vacations instead of doing his job …
# ThursdayThoughts since Trump has effectively alienated every lawyer on the planet he is defending himself. His big ass brain does such a great job with everything else so why not? Someone who defends themselves has a fool for a client. @ realDonaldTrump
I love this from @ PalmerReport One of the very few Trump-Russia spouses who could file for divorce and make a clean getaway is Melania Trump. She’s not known to be a subject or target of Trump-Russia or any other criminal investigation. If she can use Donald Trump’s affairs....
It is heartbreaking. Solar is the future. That trump is this vindictive towards fellow Americans, its sickening to see. I wish all of you well. May the trump era be as short as possible, and then our country can start to move forward again.
Don't worry Russia will be here soon, you won't have to go anywhere
Trump vs. Amazon: A cultural divide
In 2016, 86 percent of the most authoritarian white voters backed Trump, an increase of 24 percentage points. …
Never mind Jacob. He speaks rhetoric like tRUMP, none of it is backed by fact or reality. YOU are correct in everything you said. Fox News must be saying everyone is rich if Jacob is saying so.
Shut up chachalaca!!!!
Under current British law, the correct response is to tweet # RefugessWelcome each time an attacker plunges his screwdriver into your back.
That 5.9% is Trumps 3%plus odumas negative 2.9%.
Mad Trump America, dragging the country backward. …
Ah, U & Jr out celebrating his *freedom*? @ LaraLeaTrump demand STD test. Fmly of
Trump definitely fucked her though the sweaty frog
Aplaude @ Mzavalagc mensaje de Peña Nieto a Trump …
Honestly, I often wonder the same thing. Someone else (I don’t remember who) said they’d bet money that Trump’s sons/friends probably shorted Amazon stock before Trump started attacking them on Twitter. I believe it.
Not really. Trump is busy with real issues. Stormy is not a story.
El gob de Trump no va a "mandarnos" al ejercito, no seas incendiario mediante mentiras. "Un país macho"? Haha se peefecto la condición de nuestro país, sin embargo, mi horizonte no termina ahí. Y creo que podemos estar peor con las politicas de AMLO, tu decides creerle, que bueno
Trump tower how about yours u have a tower?lol
Sally Yates Says While ‘Elections Have Consequences,’ Trump Goes Too Far - The New York Times
Trump's day went from unscripted to stormy … via @ yahoo
Not a laughing matter... this liberal hater must step down immediately or be removed from her position! @ POTUS @ realDonaldTrump Dem Sen Kamala Harris Jokes About Killing Trump, Pence, Sessions | Breitbart …

Last time I checked there was quite a line up to trump's door...so....
We should only be that lucky. How anyone can look at this disgusting lunatic & say he’s beloved, doing a great job is beyond my understanding? Wonder what their work ethics r and how much they’re destroying companies they serve and pocket millions off the backs of them? Insanity!
Didn’t Trump say that he was very very happy with him? In code, that means he’ll be fired by Monday
Don’t get what? That you literally have no evidence for anything that you’re suggesting? The ONLY illegal foundation involved in the 2016 election was the fraudulent TRUMP foundation that was promptly shut down. You know that?
West U councilwoman accused of yelling obscenities at teen wearing Trump shirt …
Trump estudia imponer otros 100 mil millones en aranceles a China
# Empresa 09/03/18 @ ABarrancoCh Carambola de # Trump …
Should Trump Team File Lawsuit to Stop the Mueller Investigation on 10 Legal Grounds it’s UNCONSTITUTIONAL? Would SCOTUS Agree with Trump? …
You know, I've ignored the 30 year old virgin for as long as I can take... the Mets have got to stop with this bullshit... it's this frame of mind that got Trump elected
ألله يخرب بيته
You have got to watch, Sinclair's Soldiers in Trump's War on Media via @ YouTube
The king of fake news proclaims yet again.... Trump Claims CA’s Elections Are Illegitimate - New York Magazine …
Trump is a tremendous CON ARTIST. # Trump has been conning and lying all his life. Truth not fake news as his words and actions have been recorded. Listen to him in 1976 he’s the same liar. # DonaldTrump # ConArtist
Empty threats by Mexico and those banditos don’t stand a chance against our Border Patrol and Guardsmen.
Trump is destroying the US because Putin is calling the shots!
Graham to Trump: When It Comes to Syria, Do Not Read the Obama Playbook …
And then added the indignity of calling his wife ugly, insinuating she has dirty secrets, then saying Lying Teds father killed JFK, and god still told Ted to grovel before trump anyways.
Make China Great again—Donald J. Trump
Dotard Donald, you have lied to the people of WV. You have not delivered what you
I BELIEVE MICHAEL COHEN WAS FIRST 2 GRADUATE FROM TRUMP UNIVERSITY WITH A LAW DEGREE. I THINK ITS STARTING 2 SHOW …
Trump declares that his voter-fraud conspiracy theory is 'not a conspiracy theory' - Washington Post
Where I don't see it where i work. More fake claims of accomplishment from our fake President.
As opposed to FoxNews, who are your "chief lobbyists" and propaganda puppets! Give us a break with this nonsense tweeting of yours. Our eyes are wide opened and we see you for the LIAR that you are!
I doubt I will ever be able to look at this man again without visualizing his hate Trump rants.
Trump, GOP and NRA want unlimited military style assault weapons and ammo for anyone, any age, criminal history ok, no background check ok, mental health issues ok. BUT hey let's solve the massacres with CLEAR BACK PACKS! WTF? …
Nothing ever happens to these people until Trump is embarrassed by them or gets angry at them. …
President Trump Defending His Blatantly Corrupt EPA Head Scott Pruitt Amid Scandal
Ur right he's deranged & needs 2 talk with his therapist!Guess since he's a beta male is why he portrayed Trump as a woman & traced pic of Sarah.Clearly he has problem with women. Photo shopped traced pic 12 yr old can do!Druggie that helped push his girlfriend 2 overdose & die.
Ya no le hagan publicidad a trump …

@ SpeakerRyan Repubs & U did this 2 US. CONGRESS REPUBS did this to US-proving they put POLICY B4 PEOPLE & U must think WE R IDIOTS. Not fake news, FAKE TRUMP. FACTS r out. WE have been LIED TO, TORN TO SHREDS & U R what is FAKE. Anyone can look 4 FACTS--RYAN, WHY DO U SUPPORT IT
While @ realDonaldTrump is playing games with China, ready to impose additional tariffs, is he also ready to have all of his trump paraphernalia made here in the United States yet?
Watch: Huck Skewers Liberals Whining Trump's Not Compassionate to Illegals via @ conserv_tribune
As soon as the US is in bankruptcy, Trump will resign. He's determined to strip the US Treasury of all of its wealth.
Fake news!
. @ OutFrontCNN Hey @ ErinBurnett can you PLEASE ask @ StephenMoore where the hell does @ realDonaldTrump get off for calling out China for cheating & stealing when all Trump has ever done is cheat & steal from folks. Hell America has a history of cheating & stealing
The only tariff I support is on the Trump trinkets and trash that are made in China
As though # Trump is so fit and trim. What a delusional ego he has. # Loser
Pobre pendejo como dice AMLO es el payaso que recibe las cachetadas!!!!
@ realDonaldTrump @ SenSanders
Lol. I use that line re Trump quite often as in Bugs line “whadda maroon”. My favorite oldtime cartoon character.
Please, close the border, and stop sending us weapons, and finish with the world's greatest illegal drug market demand (40%) that is creating a big problem in Mexico (drug cartels, corruption and deaths); thank you.
pinche viejito marihuano, ladrón traidor y lamehuevos..... ya mero se llega tu hora de perder tu pensión, por fin se va a hacer justicia....
Does Sessions even know or care that he’s AG. I think he believes he works for Rod. Somebody please go in his office and wake him up. I wish President Trump would’ve picked Rudy Giuliani.
Want to protect the most important IP?? Add a tariff to COLLEGE for China!
Discursos en tuiter, pero los perros de @ EPN a la orden de Trump.
I bet you, your rich friends and your corporate buddies are really enjoying those tax cuts. For most Americans the tax cuts are a joke and not helping! Look at the cost of goods sold, there on the rise. Just the increase of gas since January will surpass most tax cut benefits.
“Safe” from illegals. But wonder who can save you from yourselves # crazyjunkies
McConnell & Ryan have to be voted OUT!!!
No proof........just "believe me" from @ realDonaldTrump the world's greatest person of lying.
Pres. Trump Repeats Comment About Mexican Rapists in Reference to Migrant Women Being Raped Traveling Though Mexico to US (VIDEO) …
Anytime a supporter of the President says something intelligent about his policies the socialist leftovers scream Russia. They in fact would be happier there.
yhh report this, just a bot
Peter Schiff Warns ' # DeepState' Unafraid To Crash The Market On Trump's Watch: …. # news
he sounds like Trump 2.0 and will not get my vote
# SpankyMcBoneSpurs
Bezos for the first time holds the top position, at $112 billion; the magazine dropped Trump to No. 766, with a value of $3.1 billion, down $400 million in the past year. # BezosIsRicher
MSM wants you to believe Trump is waging war on immigrants — truth is … 2006, President George W. Bush deployed 6,000 National Guard troops to Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California. President Obama did the same in July 2010, deploying 1,200 troops.
And out of all of those people you listed, none have come close to being unfairly attacked as much as Trump has. He's not perfect, he speaks his mind, but his heart is in the right place.
It looks like fighting China is the only way to unite DEM and ROP so far, and trump can do more if he want to fight Russia either.
Senile Donald Trump offers condolences to family of a guy who’s not actually dead … via @ PalmerReport
You are a frigging Idiot
I’m not seeing a cent more. Who is getting this money???
Trump declares that his voter-fraud conspiracy theory is 'not a conspiracy theory' - Washington Post
¡Al fin se armó de valor! "Nadie ni nada está por encima de la dignidad de # México" Así le responde, EPN a TRUMP "Si sus recientes declaraciones derivan por frustraciones internas, diríjase a ellas, no a los mexicanos"
# MAGA! The new Ben Garrison Cartoon- Trumps wall 2018- read the post at
# EleccionesMéxico | Correcta, la posición de Peña ante declaraciones de Trump: Anaya …
This is how the scumbag will come at us in 2018 and 2020. Be ready. Trump repeats debunked voter fraud claim @ CNNPoliticshttps://
Yes, orange clown is just "dumb", but eventually we pay in our pockets and he won't care.
Trump Doubles Down on Potential Trade War With China via @ NYTimes of course he doeshttps://
How can Trump be so clueless about . . . voting fraud? Your turn. (Start a hashtag?) …
The @ USChamber is nothing but. Their interests are making the big global guys bigger & monopolistic. Result is the choking out of our US industry & worker ultimately. Sorry for the expletives but this snow job is over.
Is it time to ask if/what Trump and/or the Russians have on Nunes?
“Rather than zeroing in on a focused message about the tax cuts that congressional # Republicans believe is the key to retaining their majorities this fall, # Trump launched into a rambling diatribe ...” …
