Apple iPhone X review:
The best iPhone challenges you to think different
by Scott Stein  Reviewed: December 22, 2017
12345678910111213141516
$799.99
MSRP: $999.00
Apple iPhone X (64GB, Space Gray)
(Part #: MQA52LL/A) Released: Nov 3, 2017
3 Related Models
Amazon.com $1,199.00 See It
Cricket Wireless $799.99 See It
Walmart $1,099.00 See It
Amazon Marketplace $1,199.00 See It
T-Mobile USA $999.99 See It
See all prices 
CNET may get a commission from these offers.

Compare These

Samsung Galaxy S9 Plus

Samsung Galaxy S9

Huawei P20 Pro

LG V30
The Good A great blend of handheld comfort and a big, gorgeous OLED screen. Rear telephoto camera outshoots the 8 Plus in low light, and the front camera snaps impressive portrait selfies. Face ID generally works fine.

The Bad New interface and no home button mean major adjustments, and key features such as the Control Center are harder to reach and use. It’ll take time for most apps to be optimized for notched screen. The phone is hella expensive, and the all-glass design means a case and an insurance plan are musts. Shorter battery life than iPhone Plus models.

The Bottom Line iPhone X is an overdue and winning evolution of the iPhone, but you’ll need to leave your comfort zone to make a jump into the face-recognizing future.

8.9
OVERALL
Design 9.0
Features 9.0
Performance 10.0
Camera 9.0
Battery 7.0
 
Review Sections
Review
Prices
Specs
CNETMobilePhonesApple iPhone X
I came home late from my first day of testing the iPhone X. My wife sent me audio clips over iMessage from the kids after I sent them pictures of myself, now beardless. "O-M-G. I can't even recognize Daddy!"

I couldn't recognize myself either. In the mirror, I looked smooth, like another version of me. I felt vulnerable. I had shaved my beard to test Face ID, Apple's new method for unlocking your iPhone by simply looking at it. But, what would it be like in public, on TV, when I hug my kids? At first, big personal changes feel uncomfortable but appealing. Everything seems different but also potentially refreshing.

My smooth face was the perfect metaphor for my experience with the iPhone X, which -- starting at $999, £999 or AU$1,579 -- is Apple's most expensive iPhone ever. The 10-year anniversary iPhone feels the same, but different. Weird, but good. I've been alternating between both feelings over the last couple of weeks. And you, future iPhone X owner, might feel the same. But tough it out -- because after a few days, you're probably going to like where you end up.

Editors' note, Dec. 22: This review has been updated with detailed battery testing information. The addition of the battery rating has slightly adjusted the overall rating from 9.0 to 8.9 (still 4.5 stars). The review also includes November 14 updates that added more additional information on durability and waterproofing tests, camera testing and general usage. You can also check out our earlier impressions of the iPhone X.

iphone-x-52
Sarah Tew/CNET
Weeks later: It feels great to hold, but Face ID can feel slow
After another week of living with the iPhone X as my main everyday phone, its size and design have won me over in lots of ways. But the Face ID phone unlock process still feels labor-intensive compared to Touch ID iPhones. Sometimes it doesn't unlock quickly, and sometimes it just doesn't work. And, as I expected, the new gestures are taking a while to gel. Getting to Control Center is now a two-handed operation that's flat-out annoying. But I'm fine with the flick-up home gesture and have gotten so used to it that I've started to try it on other iPhones and iPads, where it doesn't work.



iPhone X Control Center
Nic Henry/CNET
I haven't been so happy with the size and shape of an iPhone since the iPhone 5. The nearly all-screen feel, when used properly by optimized apps, is fantastic. It feels new, and some elements of the interface, like an improved way to swipe and swap apps, are a big step forward.

But I'd still like the new gestural language to be smoothed out a bit. Now that the home button is gone, its core functions have been spread around. The iPhone X feels like an open door to possibilities that iOS has barely begun to explore.

Get a case. Seriously.
CNET drop-tested the iPhone X, and it didn't fare well. In fact, it cracked at a single three-foot drop. That's worse than previous iPhones. Gadget warranty company SquareTrade had a similar experience in its tests, dubbing the X "most breakable iPhone we've ever tested." 

With the notable exceptions of the Moto Z2 Force and Droid Turbo 2 -- which, in everyday usage, really do live up to their "shatterproof" reputation -- the possibility of a broken screen is an occupational hazard for any phone owner. But the relative fragility of the iPhone X is made worse by the fact that repair costs for the device's screen are Apple's highest ever: $279, £286 or AU$419. If you need something other than the screen fixed -- including the equally breakable glass back -- that will cost you a whopping $549, £556 or AU$819. Yikes.

It all means that you should absolutely be using a case (check out our list of best iPhone X cases). You should also strongly consider investing in an insurance or third-party warranty plan, such as AppleCare Plus or a wireless carrier policy.

iphone-8-case-group-01
63
Best iPhone X cases
The iPhone X is also water resistant, just like the 7, 7 Plus, 8 and 8 Plus. The X fared fine in our bucket immersion test for a hair under 30 minutes, which is the technical limit of its water-resistance rating. But the water resistance is really designed to survive quick accidental dunks, splashes, rain and snow. The standard warranty doesn't cover water damage (though the above-mentioned insurance plans often do so), and the phone is not designed to be immersed in salt water or chlorinated swimming pools. 

The iPhone's biggest ever design change
The basic pitch for the iPhone X is this: Take the iPhone 8 Plus ($649.00 at Amazon.com) and cram all of its features into a body that's closer to the size of the iPhone 8. Add Face ID but subtract the Touch ID home button, a casualty of the new, nearly all-screen design. That's the iPhone X.


To be clear, except for that home button -- and Touch ID -- all of the other iPhone 8 Plus features are here, including a blazing fast six-core A11 Bionic processor, water-resistance and -- unfortunately -- no headphone jack. The iPhone X also boasts dual rear cameras which are even a bit better than the already superb ones on the Plus. (More on that later.) Wireless charging is on board too, as is the glass-backed design needed to enable it. Yes, you'll need a good case. And you should strongly consider Apple Care Plus, because repair costs for smashed front or rear glass on the iPhone X are exorbitant.

iphone-x-comparisons-01
Sarah Tew/CNET
Of course, Apple is charging a hefty premium for its most sophisticated-ever iPhone, too: $999, £999 or AU$1,579 for 64GB. Or step up to $1,149; £1,149 or AU$1,829 for the 256GB version.

Yes, the iPhone X changes the look and function of the iPhone. Before the X, the iPhone design was frozen for years: Home button at the bottom, thick bezels above and below the screen. iOS made some subtle changes over the years, but losing the home button completely shifts the definition of an iPhone.

iphone-x-18
Sarah Tew/CNET
But while the 5.8-inch display on the iPhone X dwarfs the 4.7-inch screen on the iPhone 8, it doesn't mean the X's display is "bigger" than the iPhone 8 Plus' 5.5-inch screen. That's because they're shaped differently: The 8 and 8 Plus have the same 16:9 aspect ratio as your TV, while the X is more like 19:9 -- it's taller and wider than the 8, 7, 6S and 6.

In the end, the Plus may still work better bet for larger documents and stand as the best canvas for Apple's giant iOS game collection compared to the narrower X -- but returning to the 8 Plus feels like going back to a (smaller) iPad Mini ($399.99 at Best Buy) by comparison. The X acknowledges that the Plus iPhones were a bit too big, that this new design is just right. It splits the difference, saying, "here's the bigger-screened phone, but it still feels nice in your hand." At long last, it's a Goldilocks design that fits right in the middle.

A closer look at that screen
The infamous notch above the X's display, which cuts out a small chunk of the upper screen to make room for the phone's front-facing camera and sensors, doesn't impact many apps or videos. In fact most I've tried put any critical info below that notch by default. But that does mean the effective display area is even smaller, with black bars on the top and bottom (in portrait mode) or on the sides (in landscape mode). 

114-iphone-x
The 8 Plus (above) and iPhone X (below) playing the same video.

Sarah Tew/CNET
At 458 pixels per inch, the Super Retina display resolution on the iPhone X is technically more crisp than that of the iPhone 8 Plus and iPhone 8 (401 and 326 ppi, respectively). The new OLED display -- the first in an Apple iPhone -- has beautiful perfect black levels and excellent color. It feels brighter than both previous iPhones and the Samsung Galaxy Note 8 ($788.83 at Amazon.com), and it's demonstrably better than the muted colors you'll find on the Pixel 2 XL ($849.99 at Best Buy).

View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter

Scott Stein

@jetscott
 First real night of sleep since Monday, waking up with iPhone X in morning. OLED in dark looks really nice.

7:29 AM - Nov 1, 2017
52
28 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
It's a fantastic viewing experience overall. But there's one big reason to temper your expectations: Apple's LCD screens on previous phones are already so great that you actually may not notice much of a difference. 

Face ID and that depth-sensing front camera
Back to that notch. In addition to the a microphone (for ambient noise), speaker and ambient light sensor you'd find on other phones, it houses an infrared camera, "flood illuminator" and a dot projector and the 7-megapixel selfie camera. Collectively, Apple calls these imaging portions the "TrueDepth camera system."

iphone-x-notch
TrueDepth enables the iPhone X's signature feature: Face ID. It's like a mini Microsoft Kinect -- yes, Apple bought the company that developed that Xbox accessory back in 2013 -- using your face as the authenticator to unlock the phone and for any transactions or passwords. It totally replaces Touch ID -- Apple's fingerprint reader.is nowhere to be found on iPhone X. Logging into the iPhone X  with your face feels weird at first, but I've come to love how automatically it fills in username and password data on apps and Web pages. It's starting to feel like a far more automatic future. 

Face ID was the biggest "what if" for the iPhone X, but the good news is that it performs very well. It recognized me with my beard and without, with glasses and without, with sunglasses and even in total darkness. (The infrared camera is doing the heavy lifting, not the selfie camera.) It didn't unlock for anyone else I tried it with, either.

Continue To Next Page 0102
BEST PHONES FOR 2018
See All
 
Samsung Galaxy S9 Plus
Starting at: $839.99
It has one ace up its sleeve to top the fully equipped Galaxy S9.

 
Samsung Galaxy S9
Starting at: $499.99
The mostly excellent Galaxy S9's new features aren't quite as good as we'd like, but you'll...

 
Huawei P20 Pro
Starting at: $1,099.99
Those cameras aren't a gimmick: This phone takes superb shots in low light.

 
LG V30
Starting at: $696.00
LG just gave Samsung a run for the money.

 
Google Pixel 2
Starting at: $649.00
The Pixel 2's superb camera makes it worth a look.

THIS WEEK ON CNET NEWS
 
Zuckerberg, ever resolute, doubles down on Facebook’s mission
 
Oculus Go has arrived: Facebook's portable VR system breaks the $200 barrier
 
What iPhone slowdown? Apple's sales are better than feared
PREMIER BRANDS
T-Mobile
DISCUSS APPLE IPHONE X
 830 comments
 
 CLOSE
Be respectful, keep it clean and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.


Need a new laptop? Start here with our favorites

Need a new laptop? Start here with our favorites
by Dan Ackerman
Best tips for buying a new phone this year

Best tips for buying a new phone this year
by Jessica Dolcourt
¡Se habla español!
Everything you love about CNET is also available in Spanish. From your favorite review to special stories that affect the Spanish-speaking community around the world, we've got it all.

¡Vamos! ¡Se habla español!
Download the CNET app About CNET Privacy Policy Ad Choice Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Help Center
© CBS INTERACTIVE INC.
All Rights Reserved.
AFFILIATE DISCLOSURE
CNET may get a commission from retail offers.
TOP BRANDS
T-mobile
